=head1 NAME 

F<perl.pod> - Perl 5 语言简介 

=head1 SYNOPSIS 

B<perl>    S<[ B<-sTtuUWX> ]> 

S<[ B<-hv> ] [ B<-V>[:I<configvar>] ]> 

S<[ B<-cw> ] [ B<-d>[B<t>][:I<debugger>] ] [ B<-D>[I<number/list>] ]> 

S<[ B<-pna> ] [ B<-F>I<pattern> ] [ B<-l>[I<octal>] ] [ B<-0>[I<octal/hexadecimal>] ]> 

S<[ B<-I>I<dir> ] [ B<-m>[B<->]I<module> ] [ B<-M>[B<->]I<'module...'> ] [ B<-f> ]> 

S<[ B<-C [I<number/list>] >]> 

S<[ B<-S> ]> 

S<[ B<-x>[I<dir>] ]> 

S<[ B<-i>[I<extension>] ]> 

S<[ [B<-e>|B<-E>] I<'command'> ] [ B<--> ] [ I<programfile> ] [ I<argument> ]...> 

=head1 GETTING HELP 

F<perldoc>程序为您提供了访问所有Perl文档的入口.  如果您想获得更多的文档支持，教程指南和社区在线支持，请访问L<http：//www.perl.org/>. 

If you're new to Perl, you should start by running C<perldoc perlintro>,  which is a general intro for beginners and provides some background to help you navigate the rest of Perl's extensive 文档.  尽可能使用 C<perldoc> 来学习所有你想学的东西吧。 

为了更容易开始，Perl 的帮助文档被分成几个部分. 

=head2 Overview 

F<perl.pod> - Perl 预览（你在看的就是） 

F<perlintro.pod> - Perl 为初学者准备的简介 

F<perltoc.pod> - Perl 文档的索引目录 

=head2 Tutorials 

F<perlreftut.pod> - Perl 引用的简短介绍 

F<perldsc.pod> - Perl 数据结构介绍 

F<perllol.pod> - Perl 数据结构： 数组的数组 

F<perlrequick.pod> - Perl 正则表达式预览 

F<perlretut.pod> - Perl 正则表达式详细介绍 

F<perlboot.pod> - Perl 为初学者准备的面向对象编程介绍 

F<perltoot.pod> - Perl 面向对象编程介绍，第一部分 

F<perltooc.pod> - Perl 面向对象编程介绍，第二部分 

F<perlbot.pod> - Perl 面向对象的一些技巧和实例 

F<perlperf.pod> - Perl 性能和优化技术 

F<perlstyle.pod> - Perl 风格向导 

F<perlcheat.pod> - Perl 备忘录 

F<perltrap.pod> - Perl 对于粗心者的陷阱 

F<perldebtut.pod> - Perl 调试指南 

F<perl常见问题.pod> - Perl 经常问的问题 

F<perl常见问题1.pod> - 关于 Perl 通常的问题 

F<perl常见问题2.pod> - 如何获得并学习 Perl 

F<perl常见问题3.pod> - Programming Tools 

F<perl常见问题4.pod> - 数据操作 

F<perl常见问题5.pod> - 文件和格式 

F<perl常见问题6.pod> - 正则表达式 

F<perl常见问题7.pod> - Perl 语言问题 

F<perl常见问题8.pod> - 系统交互 

F<perl常见问题9.pod> - 利用网络通信 

=head2 Reference Manual 

F<perlsyn.pod> - Perl 语法 

F<perldata.pod> - Perl 数据结构 

F<perlop.pod> - Perl 操作符和优先级 

F<perlsub.pod> - Perl 子程序 

F<perlfunc.pod> - Perl 内置函数 

F<perlopentut.pod> - Perl open（） 简介 

F<perlpacktut.pod> - Perl pack（） 和 unpack（） 简介 

F<perlpod.pod> - Perl 简易老式文档 POD 

F<perlpodspec.pod> - Perl POD 格式定义 

F<perlpodstyle.pod> - Perl POD： 风格向导 

F<perlrun.pod> - Perl 执行和选项 

F<perldiag.pod> - Perl 诊断信息 

F<perllexwarn.pod> - Perl 警告和控制原理l 

F<perldebug.pod> - Perl 调试 

F<perlvar.pod> - Perl 预定义变量 

F<perlre.pod> - Perl 正则表达式，剩下的故事 

F<perlrebackslash.pod> - Perl 正则表达式转义优先级 

F<perlrecharclass.pod> - Perl 正则字符集 

F<perlreref.pod> - Perl 正则表达式快速参考 

F<perlref.pod> - Perl 参考， 剩下的故事 

F<perlform.pod> - Perl 格式 

F<perlobj.pod> - Perl 对象 

F<perltie（绑定操作符）.pod> - Perl objects hidden behind simple variables 

F<perldbmfilter.pod> - Perl DBM 过滤器 

F<perlipc.pod> - Perl 进程间通信 

F<perlfork.pod> - Perl fork（） 信息 

F<perlnumber.pod> - Perl 数字符号 

F<perlthrtut.pod> - Perl 线程教程 

F<perlport.pod> - Perl 移植向导 

F<perllocale.pod> - Perl 区域支持 

F<perluniintro.pod> - Perl Unicode 介绍 

F<perlunicode.pod> - Perl Unicode 支持 

F<perluni常见问题.pod> - Perl Unicode 常见问题 

F<perluniprops.pod> - Index of Unicode Version 6.0.0 propertie（绑定操作符）s in Perl 

F<perlunitut.pod> - Perl Unicode 教程 

F<perl扩展二进制编码.pod> - 考虑将 Perl 运行在 扩展二进制编码 编码的平台上 

F<perlsec.pod> - Perl 安全 

F<perlmod.pod> - Perl 模块： 他们如何工作 

F<perlmodlib.pod> - Perl 模块： 如何写和使用 

F<perlmodstyle.pod> - Perl 模块： 如何有风格的写模块 

F<perlmodinstall.pod> - Perl 模块： 如何通过 Perl综合典藏网 安装模块 

F<perlnewmod.pod> - Perl 模块： 准备发布自己的模块 

F<perlpragma.pod> - Perl 模块： 编写用户使用接口 

F<perlutil.pod> - utilitie（绑定操作符）s packaged with the Perl distribution 

F<perlcompile.pod> - Perl compiler suite intro 

F<perlfilter.pod> - Perl source filters 

F<perlglossary.pod> - Perl Glossary 

=head2 Internals and C Language Interface 

F<perlembed.pod> - Perl ways to embed perl in your C or C++ application 

F<perldebguts.pod> - Perl 调试错误 guts and tips 

F<perlxstut.pod> - Perl XS tutorial 

F<perlxs.pod> - Perl XS application programming interface 

F<perlclib.pod> - Internal replacements for standard C library functions 

F<perlguts.pod> - Perl internal functions for those doing extensions 

F<perlcall.pod> - Perl calling conventions from C 

F<perlmroapi.pod> - Perl method resolution plugin interface 

F<perlreapi.pod> - Perl regular expression plugin interface 

F<perlreguts.pod> - Perl regular expression engine internals 

F<perlapi.pod> - Perl API listing (autogenerated) 

F<perlintern.pod> - Perl internal functions (autogenerated) 

F<perliol.pod> - C API for Perl's implementation of IO in Layers 

F<perlapio.pod> - Perl internal IO abstraction interface 

F<perlhack.pod> - Perl hackers guide 

F<perlsource.pod> - Guide to the Perl source tree 

F<perlinterp.pod> - Overview of the Perl intepreter source and how it works 

F<perlhacktut.pod> - Walk through the creation of a simple C code patch 

F<perlhacktips.pod> - Tips for Perl core C code hacking 

F<perlpolicy.pod> - Perl 开发 policies 

F<perlgit.pod> - Using git with the Perl repository 

=head2 Miscellaneous 

F<perlbook.pod> - Perl book information 

F<perlcommunity.pod> - Perl community information 

F<perl正在改进.pod> - Perl things to do 

F<perldoc.pod> - Look up Perl 文档 in pod: format 

F<perlhist.pod> - Perl history records 

F<perldelta.pod> - Perl 变更 since previous version 

F<perl51311delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.11 

F<perl51310delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.10 

F<perl5139delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.9 

F<perl5138delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.8 

F<perl5137delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.7 

F<perl5136delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.6 

F<perl5135delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.5 

F<perl5134delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.4 

F<perl5133delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.3 

F<perl5132delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.2 

F<perl5131delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.1 

F<perl5130delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.13.0 

F<perl5123delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.12.3 

F<perl5122delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.12.2 

F<perl5121delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.12.1 

F<perl5120delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.12.0 

F<perl5115delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.11.5 

F<perl5114delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.11.4 

F<perl5113delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.11.3 

F<perl5112delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.11.2 

F<perl5111delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.11.1 

F<perl5110delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.11.0 

F<perl5101delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.10.1 

F<perl5100delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.10.0 

F<perl595delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.9.5 

F<perl594delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.9.4 

F<perl593delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.9.3 

F<perl592delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.9.2 

F<perl591delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.9.1 

F<perl590delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.9.0 

F<perl589delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.9 

F<perl588delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.8 

F<perl587delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.7 

F<perl586delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.6 

F<perl585delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.5 

F<perl584delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.4 

F<perl583delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.3 

F<perl582delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.2 

F<perl581delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.1 

F<perl58delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.8.0 

F<perl573delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.7.3 

F<perl572delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.7.2 

F<perl571delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.7.1 

F<perl570delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.7.0 

F<perl561delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.6.1 

F<perl56delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.6 

F<perl5005delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.005 

F<perl5004delta.pod> - Perl 变更 in version 5.004 

F<perlartistic.pod> - Perl Artistic License 

F<perlgpl.pod> - GNU General Public License 

=head2 Language-Specific 

F<perlcn.pod> - Perl for Simplified Chinese (in EUC-CN) 

F<perljp.pod> - Perl for Japanese (in EUC-JP) 

F<perlko.pod> - Perl for Korean (in EUC-KR) 

F<perltw.pod> - Perl for Traditional Chinese (in Big5) 

=head2 Platform-Specific 

F<perlaix.pod> - Perl notes for AIX 

F<perlamiga.pod> - Perl notes for AmigaOS 

F<perlbeos.pod> - Perl notes for BeOS 

F<perlbs2000.pod> - Perl notes for POSIX-BC BS2000 

F<perlce.pod> - Perl notes for WinCE 

F<perlcygwin.pod> - Perl notes for Cygwin 

F<perldgux.pod> - Perl notes for DG/UX 

F<perldos.pod> - Perl notes for DOS 

F<perlepoc.pod> - Perl notes for EPOC 

F<perlfreebsd.pod> - Perl notes for FreeBSD 

F<perlhaiku.pod> - Perl notes for Haiku 

F<perlhpux.pod> - Perl notes for HP-UX 

F<perlhurd.pod> - Perl notes for Hurd 

F<perlirix.pod> - Perl notes for Irix 

F<perllinux.pod> - Perl notes for Linux 

F<perlmacos.pod> - Perl notes for Mac OS (Classic) 

F<perlmacosx.pod> - Perl notes for Mac OS X 

F<perlmpeix.pod> - Perl notes for MPE/iX 

F<perlnetware.pod> - Perl notes for NetWare 

F<perlopenbsd.pod> - Perl notes for OpenBSD 

F<perlos2.pod> - Perl notes for OS/2 

F<perlos390.pod> - Perl notes for OS/390 

F<perlos400.pod> - Perl notes for OS/400 

F<perlplan9.pod> - Perl notes for Plan 9 

F<perlqnx.pod> - Perl notes for QNX 

F<perlriscos.pod> - Perl notes for RISC OS 

F<perlsolaris.pod> - Perl notes for Solaris 

F<perlsymbian.pod> - Perl notes for Symbian 

F<perltru64.pod> - Perl notes for Tru64 

F<perluts.pod> - Perl notes for UTS 

F<perlvmesa.pod> - Perl notes for VM/ESA 

F<perlvms.pod> - Perl notes for VMS 

F<perlvos.pod> - Perl notes for Stratus VOS 

F<perlwin32.pod> - Perl notes for Windows 

On a Unix-like system, these 文档 文件 will usually also be available as manpages for use with the F<man> program. 

In general, if something strange has gone wrong with your program and you're not sure where you should look for help, try the B<-w> switch first.  It will often point out exactly where the trouble is. 

=head1 描述 

Perl officially stands for Practical Extraction and Report Language,  except when it doesn't. 

Perl起初用来扫描文本文档，从这些文件中扫描信息，然后基于这些信息输出报告。  她很快变成一门许多系统管理员完成任务的利器。 经过多年以后，Perl已经成长为一种多用途的语言。 从单行命令到全面开发应用领域，Perl被广泛使用。 

The language is intended to be practical (easy to use, efficient,  complete) rather than beautiful (tiny, elegant, minimal). 

Perl combines (in the 作者's opinion, anyway) some of the best features of C, B<sed>, B<awk>, and B<sh>, so people familiar with those languages should have little difficulty with it.  (Language historians will also note some vestiges of B<csh>, Pascal, and even BASIC-PLUS.)  Expression syntax corresponds closely to C expression syntax.  Unlike most Unix utilitie（绑定操作符）s, Perl does not arbitrarily limit the size of your data--if you've got the memory,  Perl can slurp in your whole file as a single string.  Recursion is of unlimited depth.  And the tables used by hashes (sometimes called "associative 数组") grow as necessary to prevent degraded performance.  Perl can use sophisticated pattern matching techniques to scan large amounts of data quickly.  Although optimized for scanning text, Perl also has many excellent tools for slicing and dicing binary data. 

But wait, there's more... 

Begun in 1993 (see L<perlhist>), Perl version 5 is nearly a complete rewrite that provides the following additional benefits: 

=over 4 

=item * 

modularity and reusability using innumerable modules 

Described in L<perlmod>, L<perlmodlib>, and L<perlmodinstall>. 

=item * 

embeddable and extensible 

Described in L<perlembed>, L<perlxstut>, L<perlxs>, L<perlcall>,  L<perlguts>, and L<xsubpp>. 

=item * 

roll-your-own magic variables (including multiple simultaneous DBM implementations) 

Described in L<perltie（绑定操作符）> and L<AnyDBM_File>. 

=item * 

subroutines can now be overridden, autoloaded, and prototyped 

Described in L<perlsub>. 

=item * 

arbitrarily nested data structures and anonymous functions 

Described in L<perlreftut>, L<perlref>, L<perldsc>, and L<perllol>. 

=item * 

object-oriented programming 

Described in L<perlobj>, L<perlboot>, L<perltoot>, L<perltooc>,  and L<perlbot>. 

=item * 

support for light-weight processes (线程s) 

Described in L<perlthrtut> and L<线程s>. 

=item * 

support for Unicode, internationalization, and localization 

Described in L<perluniintro>, L<perllocale> and L<Locale::Maketext>. 

=item * 

lexical scoping 

Described in L<perlsub>. 

=item * 

regular expression enhancements 

Described in L<perlre>, with additional 实例 in L<perlop>. 

=item * 

enhanced debugger and interactive Perl 环境,  with integrated editor support 

Described in L<perldebtut>, L<perldebug> and L<perldebguts>. 

=item * 

POSIX 1003.1 compliant library 

Described in L<POSIX>. 

=back 

Okay, that's I<definitely> enough hype. 

=head1 有效性 

Perl is available for most operating systems, including virtually all Unix-like platforms.  See L<perlport/"Supported Platforms"> for a listing. 

=head1 环境 

See L<perlrun>. 

=head1 作者 

Larry Wall <larry@wall.org>, with the help of oodles of other folks. 

If your Perl success stories and testimonials may be of help to others who wish to advocate the use of Perl in their applications,  or if you wish to simply express your gratitude to Larry and the Perl developers, please write to perl-thanks@perl.org . 

=head1 文件 

@INC            locations of perl libraries 

=head1 SEE ALSO 

http://www.perl.org/       the Perl homepage 

http://www.perl.com/       Perl articles (O'Reilly) 

http://www.Perl综合典藏网.org/       the Comprehensive Perl Archive 

http://www.pm.org/         the Perl Mongers 

=head1 诊断 

The C<use warnings> pragma (and the B<-w> switch) produces some lovely 诊断. 

See L<perldiag> for explanations of all Perl's 诊断.  The C<use 诊断> pragma automatically turns Perl's normally terse warnings and 错误 into these longer forms. 

Compilation 错误 will tell you the line number of the error, with an indication of the next 标记 or 标记 type that was to be examined. (In a script passed to Perl via B<-e> switches, each B<-e> is counted as one line.) 

Setuid scripts have additional constraints that can produce error messages such as "Insecure dependency".  See L<perlsec>. 

Did we mention that you should definitely consider using the B<-w> switch? 

=head1 待改进 

The B<-w> switch is not mandatory. 

Perl is at the mercy of your machine's 定义 of various operations such as type casting, atof(), and floating-point output with sprintf(). 

If your stdio requires a seek or 结束标志 between reads and writes on a particular stream, so does Perl.  (This doesn't apply to sysread() and syswrite().) 

While none of the built-in data types have any arbitrary size limits (apart from memory size), there are still a few arbitrary limits:  a given variable name may not be longer than 251 characters.  Line numbers displayed by 诊断 are internally stored as short integers,  so they are limited to a maximum of 65535 (higher numbers usually being affected by wraparound). 

You may mail your bug reports (be sure to include full configuration information as output by the myconfig program in the perl source tree, or by C<perl -V>) to perlbug@perl.org .  If you've succeeded in compiling perl, the L<perlbug> script in the F<utils/> subdirectory can be used to help mail in a bug report. 

Perl actually stands for Pathologically Eclectic Rubbish Lister, but don't tell anyone I said that. 

=head1 NOTES 

The Perl motto is "There's more than one way to do it."  Divining how many more is left as an exercise to the reader. 

The three principal virtues of a programmer are Laziness,  Impatie（绑定操作符）nce, and Hubris.  See the Camel Book for why. 

