=EN Selecting What to Import
=CN 选择性地引入函数
=EN Fortunately, we can tell the use operation to limit its actions by specifying a list of subroutine names following the module name, called the import list:
=CN 很幸运, 我们可以告诉use操作符, 通过只导入需要的子例程来限制它的行为. 称为"函数导入清单", 如：
=EN Now the module only gives us those two subroutines and leaves our own dirname alone. 
=CN 这样的话, 模块只会将两个例程导入我们的程序, 让我们自己写的dirname留在程序中. 
=EN Of course, this is awkward to type, so more often we'll see this written with the quotewords operator:
=CN 当然, 上述的写法输入起来太麻烦, 所以一般我们会看如下用引用操作符的写法：
=EN In fact, even if there's only one item, we tend to write it with a qw( ) list for consistency and maintenance
=CN 实际上, 即便只有一个参数, 我们为了维护起来的一致性, 也倾向于用qw()这样的形式. 
=EN often we'll go back to say "give me another one from here, " and it's simpler if it's already a qw( ) list. 
=CN 因为我们往往过后再回来找到这段代码说："得在这里再加个参数", 如果我们一开始用qw()来写的话, 维护起来会更简单. 
=EN We've protected the local dirname routine, but what if we still want the functionality provided by File::Basename's dirname? No problem. We just spell it out with its full package specification:
=CN 这样我们当然保护了本地的dirname例程, 但是, 如果我们想用File::Basename模块的dirname提供的功能怎么办？没问题！我们只要打出这个例程的全名就可以了：
=EN The list of names following use doesn't change which subroutines are defined in the module's package (in this case, File::Basename). We can always use the full name regardless of the import list, as in
=CN use 关键字后面的名字列表并不会使模块里(在这个例子中是File::Basename)的子例程的定义有任何改变. 我们可以忽略导入清单, 直接用全名, 像下面一样
=EN You don't need the ampersand in front of any of these subroutine invocations, because the subroutine name is already known to the compiler following use.
=CN 你不必在这些调用的子例程的前面加"＆"符号, 因为编译器已经知道子例程的名字了. 
=EN In an extreme (but extremely useful) case, we can specify an empty list for the import list, as in
=CN 在一种极端的情况（但也极端有用）, 我们可能为导入列表指定一个空列表, 就像下面一样
=EN no import
=CN 不导入任何例程
=EN An empty list is different from an absent list. 
=CN 空列表和没有列表的概念是不一样的. 
=EN An empty list says "don't give me anything, " while an absent list says "give me the defaults
=CN 空列表的意思是说"不要导入任何子例程", 而没有列表的意思是说："请导入缺省的子例程". 
=EN If the module's author has done her job well, the default will probably be exactly what we want. 
=CN 如果模块的作者干得出色的话, 他缺省导出的例程正是你想要的. 
