=EN Installing Modules from CPAN
=CN 安装从CPAN下载的模块
=EN Installing a simple module from CPAN can be straightforward: we download the module distribution archive, unpack it, and change into its directory. 
=CN 安装从CPAN获得的简单模块可以很直接：先从CPAN下载发布的文档, 解压到一个目录.
=EN We use wget here, but it doesn't matter which tool you use. 
=CN 下例中我们用wget下载文档, 当然, 你可以用你习惯的工具下载. 
=EN From there we go one of two ways (which we'll explain in detail in Chapter 16)
=CN 然后我们可以以两种办法安装（我们将会在第16章介绍）
=EN If we find a file named Makefile. PL, we run this series of commands to build, test, and finally install the source:
=CN 如果我们找到一个叫makefile. pl的文件, 我们可以运行如下的命令来编译, 测试和最终安装源码：
=EN If we don't have permission to install modules in the system-wide directories,
=CN 如果你因为没有权限而不能在系统级的目录里建立目录, 
=EN we can tell Perl to install them under another path by using the PREFIX argument:
=CN 我们可以用PREFIX参数告诉Perl安装在你另外指定的路径：
=EN These directories were set when the administrator installed Perl, and we can see them with perl -V. 
=CN 这些目录由管理员安装Perl时建立, 我们可以用perl -V看到是哪些目录. 
=EN To make Perl look in that directory for modules, we can set the PERL5LIB environment variable. 
=CN 为了让Perl在目录中查找到模块, 我们可以设置PERL5LIB环境变量.
=EN Perl adds those directories to its module directory search list. 
=CN Perl会把这些目录加到模块搜寻清单里去. 
=EN We can also use the lib pragma to add to the module search path, although this is not as friendly, since we have to change the code, but also because it might not be the same directory on other machines where we want to run the code. 
=CN 我们也可以用lib编译提示符来加模块搜寻路径, 尽管这并不友好－－因为这不仅要修改代码, 而且在其它的机器上不一定要相同的目录. 
=EN Backing up for a minute, if we found a Build. PL file instead of a Makefile. PL, the process is the same.
=CN 不过, 等一下, 如果我们找到了Build. PL文件, 而不是Makefile. PL, 那我们可以用它, 过程是一样的.
=EN These distributions use Module::Build to build and install code. Since Module::Build is not a core Perl module, [*] we have to install it before we can install the distribution that needs it. 
=CN 这种发布用了Module::Build模块来建立和安装包. 因为Module::Build并非Perl的核心模块（至少现在还不是）, 所以我们使用时先要安装一下. 
=EN At least not yet. It should be part of Perl 5. 10, though. 
=CN 尽管它可能成为Perl 5. 10的一部分. （［的确成为Perl 5. 10的一部分：http://perldoc. perl. org/Module/Build. html］）
=EN To install into our private directories using Module::Build, we add the install_base parameter. We tell Perl how to find modules the same way we did before. 
=CN 如果要把Module::Build安装在你自己的目录, 我们可以加上install_base安装参数. 就像我们以前安装Perl时用的参数：
=EN Sometimes we find both Makefile. PL and Build. PL in a distribution. What do we do then?
=CN 不过有时候我们在发布的安装包里看到有Makefile. PL也有Build. PL. 我们该用哪一个呢？
=EN We can use either one.
=CN 都可以.
=EN Play favorites, if you like. 
=CN 请便. 
