=EN The Improved Way
=CN 改进的方法
=EN Starting with Perl 5. 6, open can create a filehandle reference in a normal scalar variable.
=CN 从Perl 5. 6版本开始, 可以用一个通常的标量变量打开一个文件句柄. 
=EN Instead of using a bareword for the filehandle name, we use a scalar variable whose value is undef. 
=CN 相比于使用裸字来代表句柄名字, 我们可以用一个含有空值的标量变量代表. 
=EN If the scalar already has a value, this doesn't work because Perl won't stomp on our data. 
=CN 如果标量已经有值的话, Perl会报错, 因为Perl不会冲掉你的数据：
=EN However, the Perl idiom is to do everything in one step. We can declare the variable right in the open statement.
=CN 当然, Perl的信条是尽量一步到位. 我们可以在open语句中声明变量.
=EN It looks funny at first, but after doing it a couple (okay, maybe several) times, you'll get used to it and like it better. 
=CN 一开始你可能觉得好笑, 但用了两次（好吧, 多次）之后, 你会习惯并喜欢使用这种方法. 
=EN When we want to print to the filehandle, we use the scalar variable instead of a bareword. Notice that there is still no comma after the filehandle. 
=CN 当我们要把内容打印到文件句柄的时候, 我们就把标量变量代替以前裸字的位置. 注意文件句柄后面一样没有逗号. 
=EN That syntax might look funny to you, though, and even if it doesn't look funny to you, it might look odd to the person who has to read your code later.
=CN 尽管下面的代码可能你看上去比较搞笑, 或者, 如果你不觉得搞笑, 可能那些后来读到你的代码的人也觉得看上去比较怪异. 
=EN In Perl Best Practices, Damian Conway recommends putting braces around the filehandle portion to explicitly state what you intend. 
=CN 在《Perl最佳实践》这本书中, Damian Conway建议在文件句柄部份要加上大括号以显明你的态度.
=EN This syntax makes it look more like grep and map with inline blocks. 
=CN 这样的语法使它看上去更新grep或者map的内嵌块形式. 
=EN Now we treat the filehandle reference just like any other scalar. We don't have to do any tricky magic to make it work. 
=CN 现在我们就可以把文件句柄引用当作标量一样到处使用了. 我们不必不得不搞些怪手法来处理问题. 
=EN We can also create filehandle references from which we can read. We simply put the right thing in the second argument. 
=CN 我们同样可以以读的方式创建文件句柄引用. 我们只要简单地在第二个参数放上适当的文件名即可：
=EN Now we use the scalar variable in place of the bareword in the line input operator. 
=CN 现在, 我们就可以在行输入操作符中裸字的位置替换成标量. 
=EN Before, we would have seen the bareword between the angle brackets:
=CN 之前, 我们会看到我们把裸字放在尖括号里：
=EN And now we see the scalar variable in its place. 
=CN 现在我们用标量代替：
=EN In general, where we've seen the bareword filehandle we can substitute the scalar variable filehandle reference. 
=CN 一般情况下, 所有用裸这字代表文件句柄的地方, 我们都可以用含有文件句柄引用的标量变量代替. 
=EN In any of these forms, when the scalar variable goes out of scope (or we assign another value to it), Perl closes the file.
=CN 在以上的各种使用方式中, 只要这个标量变量跑出范围（或者我们赋另一个值给它）, Perl就会自动关闭文件.
=EN We don't have to explicitly close the file ourselves. 
=CN 我们不必自己显式地关闭文件. 
