=EN Chapter 1. Introduction
=CN 第一章 引言
=EN Welcome to the next step in your understanding of Perl. 
=CN 欢迎来到认识 Perl 的下一台阶. 
=EN You're probably here either because you want to learn to write programs that are more than 100 lines long or because your boss has told you to do so. 
=CN 你来到这里的原因可能是你想比100行更长的 Perl 程序, 或者你的老板要你来学. 
=EN See, our Learning Perl book was great because it introduced the use of Perl for short and medium programs (which is most of the programming done in Perl, we've observed). 
=CN 看, 我们的《Learning Perl》写得如此之好, 因为它介绍给你如何用Perl写那些小或中型的程序（据我们观察, 也的确, 大多数Perl程序用这么小的代码量就能很好的完成任务）. 
=EN But, to avoid having "the Llama book" be big and intimidating, we left a lot of information out, deliberately and carefully. 
=CN 但是, 为了避免"小骆驼书"篇幅太大以至于把初学者吓退, 我们小心谨慎地精简了许多知识. 
=EN In the pages that follow, you can get "the rest of the story" in the same style as our friendly Llama book. 
=CN 在后面的学习中, 我们会以《小骆驼书》同样的风格来向你介绍"余下的故事". 
=EN It covers what you need to write programs that are 100 to 10, 000 lines long. 
=CN 本书将会覆盖写从100行到1万行的程序所需要的知识. 
=EN For example, you'll learn how to work with multiple programmers on the same project. 
=CN 比如, 你将会学到多外程序员如果在同一项目中一起工作. 
=EN This is great, because unless you work 35 hours each day, you'll need some help with larger tasks. 
=CN 这是很重要的, 因为除非你一天工作35小时, 否则你很难在没有他们帮助下完成更大的任务. 
=EN You'll also need to ensure that all your code fits with the other code as you develop it for the final application. 
=CN 同样, 在协作环境下, 你要保证你开发的所有的代码在最终的应用程序中能很好的同他人的代码配合. 
=EN This book will also show you how to deal with larger and more complex data structures, such as what we might casually call a "hash of hashes" or an "array of arrays of hashes of arrays. "
=CN 这本书也展示了如何处理更大和更复杂的数据结构. 例如我们可能会提到的所谓一个"散列中的散列", 或"数组中的数组中的散列中的数组". 
=EN Once you know a little about references, you're on your way to arbitrarily complex data structures. 
=CN 只要你掌握了一点关于引用的知识, 你就可以在复杂数据结构中自在遨游了. 
=EN And then there's the buzzworthy notion of object-oriented programming (OOP), which allows parts of your code (or hopefully code from others) to be reused with minor or major variations within the same program. 
=CN 另外, 还有一个必须知道的概念是关于什么是面向对象编程, 就是让你部份的代码（特别是可能与其它程序员共用的）能在或多或少的程度上在同一个项目中被重用. 
=EN The book will cover that as well, even if you've never seen objects before. 
=CN 这本书也介绍了这部分的知道, 尽管你可能重来没有面向对象的概念. 
=EN An important aspect of working in teams is having a release cycle and tests for unit and integration testing. 
=CN 在团队中工作中的一个重要的方面是在一个发布周期中的单元测试和集成测试. 
=EN You'll learn the basics of packaging your code as a distribution and providing unit tests for that distribution, both for development and for verifying that your code works in the ultimate end environment. 
=CN 在本书中你会学到把你的代码如何打包成一个发布版本, 并对其在开发环境中进行单元测试或在最终运行环境进行代码验证. 
=EN And, just as was promised and delivered in Learning Perl, we'll entertain you along the way with interesting examples and bad puns. 
=CN 另外, 就像我们在已经出版的《Learning Perl》中保证, 我们会在整个学习过程中用一些有趣的例子和没治的双关语让你的学习旅程充满乐趣. 
=EN (We've sent Fred, Barney, Betty, and Wilma home, though. A new cast of characters will take the starring roles. )
=CN （尽管我们把Fred, Barney, Betty和wilma送回家了, 但我们让一些新的明星来担纲表演. ）
