=EN Introducing the Method Invocation Arrow
=CN 介绍方法调用符
=EN A class is a group of things with similar behaviors and traits. For now, let's say that Class->method invokes subroutine method in package Class. A method is the object-oriented version of the subroutine, so we'll say "method" from now on. [*] That's not completely accurate, but we'll go on one step at a time. Let's use it like so:
=CN 一个类是一组具有相同很行为性状的事物的集合.对于 I<Perl> , 我们就认为类 I<->> 方法就是 I<Class> 包调用 I<method> 子程序.一个方法就是面向对象版本的子程序, 所以从现在开始, 我们会说"方法 I<"[> *] 这不是特别准确, 但是第一步.让我们像下面那样使用：
=EN In Perl, there really isn't a difference between a subroutine and a method. They both get an argument list in @_, and we have to make sure we do the right thing.
=CN 在 I<Perl> , 实际上子程序和方法没什么差别.他们都以 I<@_> 作参数, 我们来决定什么是对的。
=EN And once again, this results in:
=CN 同样, 其输出是：
=EN That's not fun yet. We've got the same number of characters, all constant, no variables. However, the parts are separable now:
=CN 不好玩是不是？ 我们得到了相同的输出结果, 都是常量, 没有变量.然而, 现在被拆开了：
=EN Ahh! Now that the package name is separated from the subroutine name, we can use a variable package name. This time, we've got something that works even when we enable use strict 'refs'.
=CN 哈！既然包名和子程序的名字分开, 我们就可用一个变量包名.这次, 我们就可以得到我们用 I<use> I<strict> I<'refs'> 时也可以工作的东西。
=EN Take the arrow invocation and put it back in the barnyard example:
=CN 我们用箭头调用来看前面农场的例子：
=EN There! Now all the animals are talking, and safely at that, without the use of symbolic coderefs.
=CN 如此！ 现在所有的动物都能安全地交谈, 不必使用符号代码引用。
=EN But look at all that common code. Each speak method has a similar structure: a print operator and a string that contains common text, except for two words. One of OOP's core principles is to minimize common code: if we write it only once, we'll save time. If we test and debug it only once, we'll save more time.
=CN 但查看一般代码.每个 I<speak> 方法都相似结构：一个打印操作符和一个包含一般文本的字串, 除了两个字不同 I<.OOP> 的一个核心原则就是把通用的代码最小化：如果我们仅写一次, 我们就节约了时间.如果我们调试一次就可以了, 我们就节省了更多时间。
=EN Now that we know more about what the method invocation arrow actually does, we've got an easier way to do the same thing.
=CN 即然我们已经知道了箭头调用符是如何工作的, 我们就得到了入门的捷径。
