=EN Exercises
=CN 练习
=EN You can find the answers to these exercises in "Answers for Chapter 11" in the Appendix.
=CN 答案附录找。
=EN Exercise 1 [20 min]
=CN 练习 I<1[20> 分钟]
=EN Type in the Animal, Cow, Horse, Sheep, and Mouse class definitions.
=CN 输入 I<Animal> , I<Cow> , I<Horse> , I<Sheep> , 和 I<Mouse> 类的定义.在 I<use> I<strict> 下可以工作。
=EN Make it work with use strict.
=CN 如果你的 I<Perl> 版本很新, 那么你可以用 I<our> 关键字。
=EN Use our if you're using a recent enough version of Perl. Your program should ask the user to enter the names of one or more barnyard animals.
=CN 你的程序要问用户输入一个或多个农场动物的名字。
=EN Create a barnyard with those animals, and have each animal speak once.
=CN 然后以这些动物创建整个农场, 每个动物都有自己的叫声。
=EN Exercise 2 [40 min]
=CN 练习 2 I<[40> 分钟]
=EN Add a Person class at the same level as Animal, and have both of them inherit from a new class called LivingCreature.
=CN 在 I<Aniaml> 同一层加上 I<Person> 类, 而且他们两个都继承自一个新类： I<LivingCreature.>
=EN Also make the speak method take a parameter of what to say, falling back to the sound (humming for a Person) if no parameter is given.
=CN 写一个 I<speak> 方法, 它取一个参数作为说话内容, 如果没有给参数, 则使用 I<sound> （对于 I<Person> 类来说是 I<humming> ）。
=EN Since this isn't Dr. Dolittle, make sure the animals can't talk.
=CN 因为这不是怪医杜立德, 所以要保证动物们不能对话。
=EN That is, don't let speak have any parameters for an animal.
=CN 就是说 I<speak> 对于动物来说没有任何参数
=EN Try not to duplicate any code, but be sure to catch likely errors of usage, such as forgetting to define a sound for an animal.
=CN 不要写重复代码, 但是要保证捕获到相似的错误, 如忘了为某个动物定义叫声。
=EN Demonstrate the Person class by invoking a person with nothing to say, and then demonstrate it a second time by invoking a person with something to say.
=CN 用调用 I<Person> 类, 然后再调用 I<Person> 类, 并让他说些话。
