=EN Exercises
=CN 练习
=EN You can find the answers to these exercises in "Answers for Chapter 9" in the Appendix.
=CN 答案附录找。
=EN Exercise 1 [15 min]
=CN 练习 1 ［ I<15> 分钟]
=EN Using the glob operator, a naive sort of every name in the /bin directory by their relative sizes might be written as:
=CN 用 I<glob> 操作符, 把 I</bin> 目录中所有的文件, 以他们的文件大小为序排序, 可能的代码如下：
=EN Rewrite this using the Schwartzian Transform technique.
=CN 用施瓦茨变换重写这个程序。
=EN If you don't have many files in the /bin directory, perhaps because you don't have a Unix machine, change the argument to glob as needed.
=CN 如果你发现在 I</bin> 中没有文件, 可能是因为你用的不是 I<UNIX> 系统, 所以可以按需改一下 I<glob> 的参数。
=EN Exercise 2 [15 min]
=CN 练习2 ［ I<15> 分钟]
=EN Read up on the Benchmark module, included with Perl. Write a program that will answer the question "How much does using the Schwartzian Transform speed up the task of Exercise 1?"
=CN 读一下 I<Perl> 里的 I<Benchmark> 模块.写个程序解决一个问题："用了施瓦茨变换使练习1的任务快了多少？"
=EN Exercise 3 [10 min]
=CN 练习3 ［ I<10> 分钟]
=EN Using a Schwartzian Transform, read a list of words, and sort them in "dictionary order. " Dictionary order ignores all capitalization and internal punctuation. Hint: the following transformation might be useful:
=CN 用施瓦茨变换, 读一列表词, 以"字典顺序"对他们进行排序.所谓字典顺序忽略大小写和和音节符.暗示：下列转换可能有用：
=EN Be sure you don't mangle the data! If the input includes the Professor and the skipper, the output should have them listed in that order, with that capitalization.
=CN 注意, 不要把数据搞乱了！ 如果输入是 I<Professor> 和 I<skipper> , 那么输出也应该是这个次序, 同样的大小写。
=EN Exercise 4 [20 min]
=CN 练习4 I<[20> 分钟]
=EN Modify the recursive directory dumping routine so it shows the nested directories through indentation. An empty directory should show up as:
=CN 修改一下递归目录打印程序, 让它以缩进的形式显示嵌套子目录.一个空的目录应该如下显示：
=EN while a nonempty directory should appear with nested contents, indented two spaces:
=CN 非空的子目录应该用缩进两人空格的方法显示嵌套内容：
