=EN Exercises
=CN 习题
=EN You can find the answers to these exercises in "Answers for Chapter 2" in the Appendix.
=CN 答案在附录中的"第二章的答案"中;
=EN Exercise 1 [15 min]
=CN 习题 1 I<[15> 分钟]
=EN Write a program that takes a list of filenames on the command line and uses grep to select the ones whose size in bytes is less than 1000.
=CN 写一个程序从命令行取一个文件清单, 然后用 I<grep> 把那些文件大小在 I<1000> 字节以内的文件找出来。
=EN Use map to transform the strings in this list, putting four space characters in front of each and a newline character after.
=CN 用 I<map> 把这个清单里的每个字串前加四个空格并在字串后面加上换行符。
=EN Print the resulting list.
=CN 然后输出列表结果。
=EN Exercise 2 [25 min]
=CN 练习 2 I<[25> 分钟]
=EN Write a program that asks the user to enter a pattern (regular expression).
=CN 写一个程序要求用户输入一个正则表达式的模板。
=EN Read this as data from the keyboard; don't get it from the command-line arguments.
=CN 不要以命令行参数形式输入, 要从键盘读取。
=EN Report a list of files in some hardcoded directory (such as "/etc" or 'C:\\Windows') whose names match the pattern.
=CN 然后从一些目录中（可以是硬编码的, 如： I<"/etc"> 或 I<'C:\\Windows'> ）中读取符合模板的文件名。
=EN Repeat this until the user enters an empty string instead of a pattern.
=CN 重复这个操作直到用户输入空串。
=EN The user should not type the forward slashes that are traditionally used to delimit pattern matches in Perl; the input pattern is delimited by the trailing newline.
=CN 要屏蔽用户输入的正斜杠 I<("/")> , 因为那是 I<Perl> 里正则表达式的分隔符;输入的模板用换行符为分隔。
=EN Ensure that a faulty pattern, such as one with unbalanced parentheses, doesn't crash the program
=CN 要保证不会因为用户输入了一个错误的正则表达式, 如括号不匹配之类的, 而导致程序崩溃。
