3.7. The Comprehensive Perl Archive Network 

3.7. CPAN模块仓库 

CPAN is the result of many volunteers working together, many of whom were originally operating their own little (or big) Perl FTP sites back before that Web thing came along. They coordinated their efforts on the perl-packrats mailing list in late 1993 and decided that disk space was getting cheap enough that the same information should be replicated on all sites rather than having specialization on each site. The idea took about a year to ferment, and Jarkko Hietaniemi established the Finnish FTP site as the CPAN mothership from which all other mirrors could draw their daily or hourly updates. 


CPAN是众多志愿者协同工作的产物。 志愿者中的许多人用他们自己的FTP站点来维持前台的CPAN Web页面。 直到1993年底，他们还是用perl-packrats邮件列表来协调他们的工作。之后，因为磁盘空间越来越便宜，所以相同信息可以在所有的站点复制，而不必放在专门的站点上。这种想法酝酿了一年左右，以Jarkko Hietaniemi(芬兰人，详见：http://users.tkk.fi/jhi/jarkko.html。中文名：沙雅可，日文名：奴稗谷笑)在芬兰建立的FTP站点为母站，其它的镜相站点可以以此来进行及时的更新。 

Part of the work involved rearranging and organizing the separate archives. Places were established for Perl binaries for non-Unix architectures, scripts, and Perl’s source code itself. However, the modules portion has come to be the largest and most interesting part of the CPAN. 


这个站点的一部份工作是重新编排和组织分离的Perl文档。建立起放置为非UNIX系统的二进制文件、脚本、和Perl源代码的空间。然而，CPAN当然最关心的是占空间大部份的Perl模块部分。 

The modules in CPAN are organized as a symbolic-link tree in hierarchical functional categories, pointing to author directories where the actual files are located. The modules area also contains indices that are generally in easy-to-parse-with-Perl formats, such as the Data::Dumper output for the detailed module index. Of course, these indices are all derived automatically from databases at the master server using other Perl programs. Often, the mirroring of the CPAN from one server to another is done with a now-ancient Perl program called mirror.pl. 


按模块的功能编目，CPAN把模块用符号连接组织起来，指向他们的作者目录－－实际文件所在的地方。 模块还包含以易于Perl分析的格式索引，如Data::Dumper这样的输出来丰富模块索引的内容。 自然啦，这一切编目索引都是有主服务器的Perl程序自动从数据库生成的。一般来说，CPAN中从一个服务器同步到另一个服务器的工作是由mirror.pl这个古老的Perl程序完成的。 

From its small start of a few mirror machines, CPAN has now grown to over 200 public archives in all corners of the Net, all churning away, updating at least daily, sometimes as frequently as hourly. No matter where we are in the world, we can find a nearby CPAN mirror from which to pull the latest goodies. 


从屈指可数的几台镜相服务器开始，CPAN如今已经成长为超过200公共服务器，至少每天（有时是每小时）刷新一次的网络。无论你在世界的哪头，我们总是可以找到最近的CPAN镜相站。 

The incredibly useful CPAN Search (http://search.cpan.org) will probably become your favorite interface. From that web site, you can search for modules, look at their documentation, browse through their distributions, inspect their CPAN Testers reports, and do many other things. 


CPAN Search (http://search.cpan.org)的难以置信的易用性，一定会成为你最喜欢的搜寻界面。 从那个网页，你可以搜寻模块、看它的文档、浏览它有哪些版本、查询他们的CPAN测试者的报告以及许多其它事情。


