=EN 9.9. Exercises
=CN 9.9. 练习
=EN You can find the answers to these exercises in "Answers for Chapter 9" in the Appendix.
=CN 答案附录找。
=EN 9.9.1. Exercise 1 [15 min]
=CN 9.9.1. 练习 1 ［15分钟]
=EN Using the glob operator, a naive sort of every name in the /bin directory by their relative sizes might be written as:
=CN 用glob操作符， 把/bin目录中所有的文件， 以他们的文件大小为序排序，可能的代码如下：

my @sorted = sort { -s $a <=> -s $b } glob "/bin/*";

=EN Rewrite this using the Schwartzian Transform technique.
=CN 用施瓦茨变换重写这个程序。
=EN If you don’t have many files in the /bin directory, perhaps because you don’t have a Unix machine, change the argument to glob as needed.
=CN 如果你发现在/bin中没有文件， 可能是因为你用的不是UNIX系统， 所以可以按需改一下glob的参数。
=EN 9.9.2. Exercise 2 [15 min]
=CN 9.9.2. 练习2 ［15分钟]
=EN Read up on the Benchmark module, included with Perl. Write a program that will answer the question "How much does using the Schwartzian Transform speed up the task of Exercise 1?"
=CN 读一下Perl里的Benchmark模块。 写个程序解决一个问题：“用了施瓦茨变换使练习1的任务快了多少？”
=EN 9.9.3. Exercise 3 [10 min]
=CN 9.9.3. 练习3 ［10分钟]
=EN Using a Schwartzian Transform, read a list of words, and sort them in "dictionary order." Dictionary order ignores all capitalization and internal punctuation. Hint: the following transformation might be useful:
=CN 用施瓦茨变换， 读一列表词， 以“字典顺序”对他们进行排序。 所谓字典顺序忽略大小写和和音节符。 暗示：下列转换可能有用：

$string =~ tr/A-Z/a-z/;       # force all lowercase
$string =~ tr/a-z//cd;        # strip all but a-z from the string
print $string;                # prints "maryann"

=EN Be sure you don’t mangle the data! If the input includes the Professor and the skipper, the output should have them listed in that order, with that capitalization.
=CN 注意，不要把数据搞乱了！ 如果输入是Professor和skipper， 那么输出也应该是这个次序，同样的大小写。
=EN 9.9.4. Exercise 4 [20 min]
=CN 9.9.4. 练习4 [20分钟]
=EN Modify the recursive directory dumping routine so it shows the nested directories through indentation. An empty directory should show up as:
=CN 修改一下递归目录打印程序， 让它以缩进的形式显示嵌套子目录。 一个空的目录应该如下显示：

sandbar, an empty directory

=EN while a nonempty directory should appear with nested contents, indented two spaces:
=CN 非空的子目录应该用缩进两人空格的方法显示嵌套内容：

uss_minnow, with contents:
  anchor
  broken_radio
  galley, with contents:
    captain_crunch_cereal
    gallon_of_milk
    tuna_fish_sandwich
  life_preservers


