=head1 Attributes

Z<attributes>

Named entities in Perl--variables and functions--can have additional metadata
attached to them in the form of I<attributes>. Attributes are arbitrary names
and values used with certain types of metaprogramming (L<code_generation>).

Attribute declaration syntax is awkward, and using attributes effectively is
more art than science. Most programs never use them, but when used well they
offer clarity and maintenance benefits.

=head2 Using Attributes

A simple attribute is a colon-preceded identifier attached to a declaration:

=begin programlisting

    my $fortress      B<:hidden>;

    sub erupt_volcano B<:ScienceProject> { ... }

=end programlisting

These declarations will cause the invocation of attribute handlers named
C<hidden> and C<ScienceProject>, if they exist for the appropriate type
(scalars and functions, respectively). These handlers can do I<anything>.  If
the appropriate handlers do not exist, Perl will throw a compile-time
exception.

X<CPAN; C<Test::Class>>

Attributes may include a list of parameters. Perl treats these parameters as
lists of constant strings and only strings. The C<Test::Class> module from the
CPAN uses such parametric arguments to good effect:

=begin programlisting

    sub setup_tests :Test(setup) { ... }

    sub test_monkey_creation :Test(10) { ... }

    sub shutdown_tests :Test(teardown) { ... }

=end programlisting

The C<Test> attribute identifies methods which include test assertions, and
optionally identifies the number of assertions the method intends to run.
While introspection (L<reflection>) of these classes could discover the
appropriate test methods, given well-designed solid heuristics, the C<:Test>
attribute makes your intent clear.

The C<setup> and C<teardown> parameters allow test classes to define their own
support methods without worrying about conflicts with other such methods in
other classes. This separates the concern of specifying what this class must do
with the concern of how other classes do their work, and offers great
flexibility.

=begin sidebar

X<Catalyst>

The Catalyst web framework also uses attributes to determine the visibility and behavior of methods within web applications.

=end sidebar

=head2 Drawbacks of Attributes

X<pragmas; C<attributes>>
X<C<attributes> pragma>
X<CPAN; C<Attribute::Handlers>>
X<CPAN; C<Attribute::Lexical>>

Attributes have their drawbacks. The canonical pragma for working with
attributes (the C<attributes> pragma) has listed its interface as experimental
for many years. Damian Conway's core module C<Attribute::Handlers> simplifies
their implementation. Andrew Main's C<Attribute::Lexical> is a newer approach.
Prefer either to C<attributes> whenever possible.

X<CPAN; C<Memoize>>

The worst feature of attributes is their propensity to produce weird syntactic
action at a distance. Given a snippet of code with attributes, can you predict
their effect? Well written documentation helps, but if an innocent-looking
declaration on a lexical variable stores a reference to that variable
somewhere, your expectations of its lifespan may be wrong. Likewise, a handler
may wrap a function in another function and replace it in the symbol table
without your knowledge--consider a C<:memoize> attribute which automatically
invokes the core C<Memoize> module.

Attributes are available when you need them to solve difficult problems. They
can be very useful, used properly--but most programs never need them.
=encoding utf8

=head1 属性

Z<attributes>

Perl 中的具名实体————变量和函数————可按 I<属性> 的形式附加额外的元信息。属性是
名称（通常，也是值），它允许某种形式的元编程（L<code_generation>）。

=begin sidebar

定义属性可能有点别扭，对其有效地使用是科学更是艺术。它们有充足的理由不在大多数
程序中出现，虽然它们 I<可以> 在代码维护和清晰度上带来引人注目的好处。

=end sidebar

=head2 使用属性

用最简单的形式来说，属性是一个附加于变量或函数声明上的前置冒号标识符：

=begin programlisting

    my $fortress      B<:hidden>;

    sub erupt_volcano B<:ScienceProject> { ... }

=end programlisting

如果合适类型（分别是标量和函数）的属性处理器存在，这些声明将引发对名为 C<hidden> 
和 C<ScienceProject> 的属性处理器的调用。如果合适的处理器不存在，Perl 会抛出编译
期异常。这些处理器可以做 I<任何事>。

属性可以包括一个参数列表；Perl 将它们作为一个常量字符串列表，即使它们可能会类似于
其他值，如，数字或变量。来自 CPAN 的 C<Test::Class> 模块很好地利用了这一参数形式：

=begin programlisting

    sub setup_tests :Test(setup) { ... }

    sub test_monkey_creation :Test(10) { ... }

    sub shutdown_tests :Test(teardown) { ... }

=end programlisting

C<Test> 属性标识了包括测试断言的方法，并且可选地标识了意图执行的断言方法的数量。
虽然对这些类的内省（L<reflection>）可以发现合适的测试方法，当给出经良好设计的启发
式方法，C<:Test> 属性使得代码及其意图毫无歧义。

C<setup> 和 C<teardown> 参数允许测试类定义它们自己的支持方法而不必担心重名或其他
因继承或其余设计上的考虑而引发的冲突。你 I<可以> 强制施行某种设计，其中所有测试类
必须自行覆盖名为 C<setup()> 和 C<teardown()> 的方法，但是属性方式给与实现更多的灵
活性。

=begin sidebar

Catalyst Web 框架也采用属性来决定 Web 应用内方法的可见性和行为。

=end sidebar

=head2 属性的缺点

X<pragmas; attributes>
X<attributes.pm>
X<Attribute::Handlers>

属性确实有它们的缺点：

=over 4

=item * 属性的正式编译命令（即 C<attributes>）已经将其接口列为“实验性质”很多年了。
Damian Conway 的核心模块 C<Attribute::Handlers> 简化了它们的实现。请在可能时采用
它而非 C<attributes>；

=item * 任何声明属性处理器的模块必须 I<继承> C<Attribute::Handlers> 以使处理器对
所有用到它们的包可见 N<你也 I<可以> 将它们存放在 C<UNIVERSAL>，但这是对全局的污染，
还是一种糟糕的设计。>。此缺点归根于 Perl 5 自身对属性的实现方式；

=item * 属性处理器生效于 C<CHECK> 代码块，使得它们不适合用于那些修改语法分析及编
译顺序的项目，例如 mod_perl；

=item * 任何提供给属性的参数是一列常量字符串。C<Attribute::Handlers> 进行部分数据
转换，但偶尔你需要禁用它。

=back

属性中最差的一点就是它们会远距离产生奇怪的语法动作。给出一段使用属性的代码，你
能否预言它的行为？良好而准确的文档可以帮助你，但如果一段看上去很无辜的词法变量
声明将此变量的引用存放他处，则你对销毁该变量内容的期待将是错误的，除非你非常仔
细地阅读文档。类似的，处理器可能会用一个函数包装另一个函数并在你不知情的情况下
在符号表里替换了它————考虑一个自动调用 C<Memoize> 的 C<:memoize> 属性。

复杂的特性可以产生紧凑和惯用语化的代码。Perl 允许开发者实验多种设计以便找到他们
想法的最佳表示。属性和其他高级 Perl 特性可以帮助你解决复杂的问题，但是他们也会混
淆原本简单的代码意图。

大多数程序绝对不会用到这个特性。
