Z<perl_community>

=head1 Community Sites

X<perl.org>
X<websites; perl.org>

Perl's homepage at U<http://www.perl.org/> links to Perl documentation, source
code, tutorials, mailing lists, and several important community projects. If
you're new to Perl, the Perl beginners mailing list is a friendly place to ask
novice questions and get accurate and helpful answers. See
U<http://learn.perl.org/faq/beginners.html>.

The home of Perl development is is U<http://dev.perl.org/>, which links to
relevant resources for developing core development of Perl 5, Perl 6N<Though
see also U<http://www.perl6.org/>>, and even Perl 1.

X<perl.com>
X<websites; perl.com>

Perl.com publishes articles and tutorials about Perl and its culture. Its
archives reach back into the 20th century. See U<http://www.perl.com/>.

X<cpan.org>
X<websites; cpan.org>
X<MetaCPAN>
X<websites; MetaCPAN>

The CPAN's (L<cpan>) central location is U<http://www.cpan.org/>, though
experienced users spend more time on U<http://search.cpan.org/>. This central
software distribution hub of reusable, free Perl code is an essential part of
the Perl community. MetaCPAN (U<https://metacpan.org/>) is a recent alternative
front end to the CPAN.

X<PerlMonks>
X<websites; PerlMonks>

PerlMonks, at U<http://perlmonks.org/>, is a community site devoted to
discussions about Perl programming. Its eleven year history makes it one of the
most venerable question and answer sites for any programming language.

X<blogs.perl.org>
X<websites; blogs.perl.org>

Several community sites offer news and commentary. U<http://blogs.perl.org/> is
a free blog platform open to any Perl community member.

X<Enlightened Perl Organization>
X<Planet Perl>
X<Planet Perl Iron Man>
X<websites; Planet Perl>
X<websites; Planet Perl Iron Man>

Other sites aggregate the musings of Perl hackers, including
U<http://perlsphere.net/>, U<http://planet.perl.org/>, and
U<http://ironman.enlightenedperl.org/>. The latter is part of an initiative
from the Enlightened Perl Organization (U<http://enlightenedperl.org/>) to
increase the amount and improve the quality of Perl publishing on the web.

X<Perl Buzz>
X<websites; Perl Buzz>
X<Perl Weekly>
X<websites; Perl Weekly>

Perl Buzz (U<http://perlbuzz.com/>) collects and republishes some of the most
interesting and useful Perl news on a regular basis. Perl Weekly
(U<http://perlweekly.com/>) offers a weekly take on news from the Perl world.

=head1 Development Sites

X<RT>
X<Best Practical>

Best Practical Solutions (U<http://bestpractical.com/>) maintains an
installation of their popular request tracking system, RT, for CPAN authors as
well as Perl 5 and Perl 6 development. Every CPAN distribution has its own RT
queue, linked from C<search.cpan.org> and available on U<http://rt.cpan.org/>.
Perl 5 and Perl 6 have separate RT queues available on U<http://rt.perl.org/>.

X<Perl 5 Porters>
X<p5p>

The Perl 5 Porters (or I<p5p>) mailing list is the focal point of the
development of Perl 5 itself. See
U<http://lists.cpan.org/showlist.cgi?name=perl5-porters>.

X<TPF>
X<The Perl Foundation>
X<TPF; wiki>
X<websites; TPF wiki>

The Perl Foundation (U<http://www.perlfoundation.org/>) hosts a wiki for all
things Perl 5. See U<http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl5>.

X<Github>
X<gitpan>
X<websites; gitpan>

Many Perl hackers use Github (U<http://github.com/>) to host their
projectsN<...  including the sources of this book at
U<http://github.com/chromatic/modern_perl_book/>>. See especially Gitpan
(U<http://github.com/gitpan/>), which hosts Git repositories chronicling the
complete history of every distribution on the CPAN.

=begin sidebar

X<C<Git::CPAN::Patch>>

If GitPAN is out of date (updating it takes considerable time and resources),
see Yanick Champoux's wonderful C<Git::CPAN::Patch> module.

=end sidebar


=head1 Events

X<YAPC>

The Perl community holds countless conferences, workshops, seminars, and
meetings. In particular, the community-run YAPC--Yet Another Perl
Conference--is a successful, local, low-cost conference model held on multiple
continents. See U<http://yapc.org/>.

The Perl Foundation wiki lists other events at
U<http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl5/index.cgi?perl_events>.

X<Perl Mongers>

Hundreds of local Perl Mongers groups get together frequently for technical
talks and social interaction. See U<http://www.pm.org/>.

=head1 IRC

X<IRC>
X<IRC; #moose>
X<IRC; #catalyst>
X<IRC; #perl-help>
X<IRC; #perl>

When Perl mongers can't meet in person, many collaborate and chat online
through the textual chat system known as IRC. Many of the most popular and
useful Perl projects have their own IRC channels, such as I<#moose> and
I<#catalyst>.

The main server for Perl community is U<irc://irc.perl.org/>. Other notable
channels include I<#perl-help>, for general assistance on Perl programming, and
I<#perl-qa>, devoted to testing and other quality issues. Be aware that the
channel I<#perl> is a general purpose room for discussing whatever its
participants want to discussN<... and it's not often friendly to people who ask
basic programming questions.>.
=encoding utf8

Z<perl_community>

=head1 社区网站

X<perl.org>
X<websites; perl.org>

Perl 的主页位于 U<http://www.perl.org/>。这个站点提供了文档、源代码、教程、邮件列表
以及若干重要的社区项目。如果你是 Perl 新手，那么友善的 Perl 新手邮件列表就是你提问并
得到准确解答的地方。参见 U<http://beginners.perl.org/>。

U<http://dev.perl.org/> 是一个值得一提的子域名，Perl 5、 Perl 6 N<Perl 6 主站为
U<http://www.perl6.org/>>，甚至是 Perl 1 核心开发的中心站点。

X<Perl Pub>

Perl.com 每月发布若干关于 Perl 编程的文章和教程。其存档可追溯到20世纪。参见
U<http://www.perl.com/>。

X<cpan.org>
X<websites; cpan.org>

CPAN (L<cpan>) 的中心位置位于 U<http://www.cpan.org/>，虽然有经验的用户通常在 
U<http://search.cpan.org/> 上花去更多时间。这个承载着可重用、免费 Perl 代码的
软件发布中心枢纽是 Perl 社区的基本组成部分。

X<PerlMonks>

PerlMonks，位于 U<http://perlmonks.org/>，这处可敬的社区站点专门用于 Perl 编程问答及
其他讨论。它于2009年十二月过完十周岁生日，使其成为编程语言专用 Web 社区中持续时间最长
者之一。

X<use Perl;>
X<blogs.perl.org>

若干社区网站提供新闻和评论。最古老的是 U<http://use.perl.org/>，它提供自主期刊已有
许多年头。不少知名 Perl 黑客曾在那里执笔。U<http://blogs.perl.org/> 是一个用于撰写 
Perl 主题博客的新兴社区站点。

X<Enlightened Perl Organization>

其他一些站点则集中展示了 Perl 黑客们对 Perl 的沉思，包括 U<http://perlsphere.net/>、
U<http://planet.perl.org/> 以及 U<http://ironman.enlightenedperl.org/>。后者是来自 
Enlightened Perl Organization (U<http://enlightenedperl.org/>) 倡议的一部分，以期增加
Perl 在线出版物的数量和质量。

X<Perl Buzz>

Perl Buzz (U<http://perlbuzz.com/>) 定期收集并重新发布一些最有趣、有用的 Perl 新闻。

=head1 开发网站 

X<RT>
X<Best Practical>

Best Practical Solutions (U<http://bestpractical.com/>) 为 CPAN 作者以及 Perl 5、Perl 6
的开发维护着一份他们产品────流行的需求跟踪系统────RT的安装。每一个 CPAN 模块的发行版有着
属于自己的 RT 队列，C<search.cpan.org> 的模块页上有对应的链接，指向 U<http://rt.cpan.org/>。
Perl 5 和 Perl 6 各自有一个位于 U<http://rt.perl.org/> 的 RT 队列。

X<Perl 5 Porters>
X<p5p>

Perl 5 Porters（也称 I<p5p>）邮件列表是 Perl 5 开发讨论的中心点。参见
U<http://lists.cpan.org/showlist.cgi?name=perl5-porters>。

X<TPF>
X<The Perl Foundation>
X<TPF wiki>

Perl 基金会（U<http://www.perlfoundation.org/>）为所有有关 Perl 5 的内容提供了一个 Wiki
参见 U<http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl5>。

X<Github>
X<Gitpan>

许多 Perl 黑客使用 Github（U<http://github.com/>）来存放他们的项目 N<…… 包括本书的书稿，
位于 U<http://github.com/chromatic/modern_perl_book/>>。一个特别值得注意的 Github 页便是
Gitpan，它存有记录每一个 CPAN 模块历史的 Git 代码库。参见 U<http://github.com/gitpan/>。

=head1 活动

X<YAPC>

物理世界同样有着众多活动。Perl 社区每年举办不少会议、workshop和研讨会。特别地，社区运营着 
YAPC ──── Yet Another Perl Conference （“又一次 Perl 大会”）──── 是一场成功的、地方性、低
成本且在多个大洲举办的会议模型。参见 U<http://yapc.org/>。

Perl 基金会 Wiki 于 U<http://www.perlfoundation.org/perl5/index.cgi?perl_events> 列举了其它
社区活动。

X<Perl Mongers>

同样还有本地 Perl Monger 小组（Perl 小贩组？！）不时地碰头举办技术讲座和社会交流。参见
U<http://www.pm.org/>。

=head1 IRC

X<IRC>
X<IRC; #moose>
X<IRC; #catalyst>
X<IRC; #perl-help>
X<IRC; #perl>

当 Perl 贩子们不出现在本地会议或大会上或 workshop 中，他们中的许多人会互相协助并在 IRC
────一种英特网早期发展起来、基于文本的群组聊天系统────上聊天。不少最为出名且有用的 Perl
项目拥有自己的 IRC 频道，例如 I<#moose> 和 I<#catalyst>。

Perl 社区的主 IRC 服务器是 U<irc://irc.perl.org/>。其他值得一提的频道包括 I<#perl-help>
──── 为一般性 Perl 编程求助而设，以及 I<#perl-qa> ──── 为测试和质量问题专用。注意 I<#perl> 
I<不是> 一般性的求助频道，相反，它是一个为讨论其参与者想讨论的任何事情而设的通用聊天室。
N<…… 而且它对提出编程基础问题的人通常不十分友好>。
