=EN Introduction Welcome to the next step in your understanding of Perl.

=CN Introduction Welcome To The 下一次 脚步 In Your 理解 Of Perl.

=EN You're probably here either because you want to learn to write programs that are more than 100 lines long or because your boss has told you to do so.

=CN You'Re Probably Here Either Because You Want To 学习 To Write Programs That Are More Than 100 Lines Long Or Because Your 上司 Has told You To Do So.

=EN See, our Learning Perl book was great because it introduced the use of Perl for short and medium programs (which is most of the programming done in Perl, we've observed).

=CN See, Our Learning Perl 书 Was 大的 Because It Introduced The Use Of Perl For 短的 And 中间 Programs (Which Is Most Of The Programming Done In Perl, We'Ve observed).

=EN But, to avoid having "the Llama book" be big and intimidating, we left a lot of information out, deliberately and carefully.

=CN But, To Avoid Having "The Llama 书" Be Big And intimidating, We Left a 许多 Of Information Out, 故意地 And 仔细.

=EN In the pages that follow, you can get "the rest of the story" in the same style as our friendly Llama book.

=CN In The 页 That 跟随, You Can Get "The 休息 Of The 故事" In The Same Style As Our 友好的 Llama 书.

=EN It covers what you need to write programs that are 100 to 10, 000 lines long.

=CN It covers What You Need To Write Programs That Are 100 To 10, 000 Lines Long.

=EN For example, you'll learn how to work with multiple programmers on the same project.

=CN For Example, You'我 学习 How To Work With Multiple Programmers On The Same 计划.

=EN This is great, because unless you work 35 hours each day, you'll need some help with larger tasks.

=CN This Is 大的, Because Unless You Work 35 小时 Each 一天, You'我 Need Some Help With larger Tasks.

=EN You'll also need to ensure that all your code fits with the other code as you develop it for the final application.

=CN You'我 Also Need To Ensure That All Your Code fits With The Other Code As You 发展 It For The 最终的 申请.

=EN This book will also show you how to deal with larger and more complex data structures, such as what we might casually call a "hash of hashes" or an "array of arrays of hashes of arrays."

=CN This 书 Will Also Show You How To 处理 With larger And More 综合的 Data Structures, Such As What We Might casually Call a "Hash Of Hashes" Or An "Array Of Arrays Of Hashes Of Arrays."

=EN Once you know a little about references, you're on your way to arbitrarily complex data structures.

=CN Once You Know a Little About References, You'Re On Your Way To 任意 综合的 Data Structures.

=EN And then there's the buzzworthy notion of object-oriented programming (OOP), which allows parts of your code (or hopefully code from others) to be reused with minor or major variations within the same program.

=CN And Then There's The buzzworthy 概念 Of Object-Oriented Programming (OOP), Which Allows 部分 Of Your Code (Or 可以指望 Code From 别人) To Be 重用 With 较小的 Or 主要的 variations Within The Same Program.

=EN The book will cover that as well, even if you've never seen objects before.

=CN The 书 Will 盖 That As Well, Even If You'Ve Never Seen Objects Before.

=EN An important aspect of working in teams is having a release cycle and tests for unit and integration testing .

=CN An Important 容貌 Of Working In teams Is Having a Release 周期 And 测试 For 单位 And 结合 testing .

=EN You'll learn the basics of packaging your code as a distribution and providing unit tests for that distribution, both for development and for verifying that your code works in the ultimate end environment.

=CN You'我 学习 The basics Of 包装 Your Code As a 分配 And 提供 单位 测试 For That 分配, Both For 进展 And For verifying That Your Code Works In The 最终的 End 环境.

=EN And, just as was promised and delivered in Learning Perl, we'll entertain you along the way with interesting examples and bad puns.

=CN And, Just As Was promised And delivered In Learning Perl, We'我 招待 You 沿着 The Way With Interesting Examples And 坏的 双关语.

=EN (We've sent Fred, Barney, Betty, and Wilma home, though.

=CN (We'Ve 打发 Fred, Barney, Betty, And Wilma 家, Though.

=EN A new cast of characters will take the starring roles.)

=CN A New 掷 Of Characters Will Take The starring 角色.)

=EN We'll presume that you've already read Learning Perl, or at least pretend you have, and that you've played enough with Perl to already have those basics down.

=CN We'我 假定 That You'Ve Already Read Learning Perl, Or At Least 假装 You Have, And That You'Ve played Enough With Perl To Already Have Those basics 向下.

=EN For example, you won't see an explanation in this book that shows how to access the elements of an array or return a value from a subroutine.

=CN For Example, You Won't See An 说明 In This 书 That Shows How To Access The Elements Of An Array Or Return a Value From a Subroutine.

=EN Make sure you know the following things:

=CN Make Sure You Know The Following Things:

=EN How to run a Perl program on your system

=CN How To Run a Perl Program On Your System

=EN The three basic Perl variable types: scalars, arrays, and hashes

=CN The Three 基本的 Perl Variable Types: Scalars, Arrays, And Hashes

=EN Control structures such as while, if, for, and foreach

=CN Control Structures Such As While, If, For, And Foreach

=EN Perl operators such as grep, map, sort, and print

=CN Perl Operators Such As Grep, Map, Sort, And Print

=EN File manipulation such as open, file reading, and -X (file tests)

=CN File 操纵 Such As Open, File 读书, And -X (File 测试)

=EN You might pick up deeper insight into these topics in this book, but we're going to presume you know the basics.

=CN You Might 拣 Up deeper 洞察力 Into These 主题 In This 书, But We'Re Going To 假定 You Know The basics.

=EN Like Learning Perl, this book relegates some of the more esoteric items out of the way for the first reading and places those items in footnotes.[*] You should skip those the first time through and pick them up on a rereading.

=CN Like Learning Perl, This 书 relegates Some Of The More esoteric 物品 Out Of The Way For The First 读书 And Places Those 物品 In footnotes.[*] You Should 跳过 Those The First Time 通过 And 拣 Them Up On a rereading.

=EN You will not find anything in a footnote that you'll need to understand any of the material we present later.

=CN You Will Not 寻找 Anything In a footnote That You'我 Need To Understand Any Of The 材料 We 在场的 更晚.

=EN What's with the Exercises?

=CN What's With The Exercises?

=EN Hands-on training gets the job done better.

=CN Hands-On 训练 Gets The 工作 Done Better.

=EN The best way to provide this training is with a series of exercises after every half-hour to hour of presentation.

=CN The Best Way To Provide This 训练 Is With a 系列 Of exercises After Every 一半-小时 To 小时 Of 提出.

=EN Of course, if you're a speed reader, the end of the chapter may come a bit sooner than a half hour.

=CN Of Course, If You'Re a 速度 读者, The End Of The 章 May 来到 a Bit sooner Than a 一半 小时.

=EN Slow down, take a breather, and do the exercises!

=CN Slow 向下, Take a breather, And Do The exercises!

=EN Each exercise has a "minutes to complete" rating.

=CN Each 锻炼 Has a "minutes To Complete" 评级.

=EN We intend for this rating to hit the midpoint of the bell curve, but don't feel bad if you take significantly longer or shorter.

=CN We 打算 For This 评级 To 打 The midpoint Of The 钟 曲线, But Don't 感到 坏的 If You Take significantly 长 Or 短.

=EN Sometimes it's just a matter of how many times you've faced similar programming tasks in your studies or jobs.

=CN Sometimes It's Just a Matter Of How Many Times You'Ve faced Similar Programming Tasks In Your 研究 Or jobs.

=EN Use the numbers merely as a guideline.

=CN Use The 编号 仅仅 As a guideline.

=EN Every exercise has its answer in the Appendix.

=CN Every 锻炼 Has Its Answer In The Appendix.

=EN Again, try not to peek; you'll ruin the value of the exercise.

=CN Again, Try Not To peek; You'我 废墟 The Value Of The 锻炼.

=EN If you're a Perl instructor who has decided to use this as your textbook, you should know that each set of exercises is short enough for most students to complete in 45 minutes to an hour, with a little time left over for a break.

=CN If You'Re a Perl 教员 Who Has 明确的 To Use This As Your 课本, You Should Know That Each Set Of exercises Is 短的 Enough For Most students To Complete In 45 minutes To An 小时, With a Little Time Left 在 For a 打破.

=EN Some chapters' exercises should be quicker, and some may take longer.

=CN Some chapters' exercises Should Be quicker, And Some May Take 长.

=EN That's because once all those little numbers in square brackets were written, we discovered that we didn't know how to add.

=CN That's Because Once All Those Little 编号 In 正方形 支架 Were Written, We discovered That We Didn't Know How To 增添.

=EN So let's get started.

=CN So Let's Get 开始.

=EN Class begins after you turn the page . . . .

=CN Class begins After You 转向 The 页 . . . .

