=EN Over a decade ago (nearly eternity in Internet Time), Randal Schwartz wrote the first edition of Learning Perl.

=CN Over a 十年 以前 (几乎 eternity In Internet Time), Randal Schwartz 写 The First 片（本） Of Learning Perl.

=EN In the intervening years, Perl itself has grown substantially from a "cool" scripting language used primarily by Unix system administrators to a robust object-oriented programming (OOP) language that runs on practically every computing platform known to mankind.

=CN In The intervening Years, Perl Itself Has 已长成的 substantially From a "凉的" scripting 语言 Used 首要地 By Unix System administrators To a 强壮的 Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) 语言 That 跑 On 实际地 Every computing 讲台 Known To 人类.

=EN Throughout its four editions, Learning Perl remained the same size (about 300 pages) and continued to cover much of the same material to remain compact and accessible to the beginning programmer.

=CN Throughout Its 四 editions, Learning Perl remained The Same Size (About 300 页) And continued To 盖 Much Of The Same 材料 To 依旧的 严密的 And Accessible To The 开端 Programmer.

=EN But there is much more to learn about Perl now than when that first book was written.

=CN But There Is Much More To 学习 About Perl Now Than When That First 书 Was Written.

=EN Randal called the first edition of this book Learning Perl Objects, References, and Modules, and now it's Intermediate Perl, but we like to think of it as just Learning More Perl.[*] This is the book that picks up where Learning Perl leaves off.

=CN Randal Called The First 片（本） Of This 书 Learning Perl Objects, References, And Modules, And Now It's Intermediate Perl, But We Like To 想 Of It As Just Learning More Perl.[*] This Is The 书 That 镐 Up Where Learning Perl 叶子 Off.

=EN We show you how to use Perl to write larger programs.

=CN We Show You How To Use Perl To Write larger Programs.

=EN [*] Don't ask why it isn't called that.

=CN [*] Don't 问 Why It Isn't Called That.

=EN We must have had 300 emails on the subject.

=CN We Must Have Had 300 emails On The Subject.

=EN Okay, ask, since we know you're going to anyway.

=CN Okay, 问, Since We Know You'Re Going To 不管怎样.

=EN You never really stop learning Perl, so Learning More Perl doesn't really tell you much about the book.

=CN You Never Really Stop 学问 Perl, So Learning More Perl Doesn't Really Tell You Much About The 书.

=EN Our editor chose the name, which tells you what to expect.

=CN Our 编辑 chose The Name, Which 告诉 You What To 盼望.

=EN As in Learning Perl, we designed each chapter to be small enough to read in just an hour or so.

=CN As In Learning Perl, We 设计 Each 章 To Be Small Enough To Read In Just An 小时 Or So.

=EN Each chapter ends with a series of exercises to help you practice what you've just learned, and the answers are in the appendix for your reference.

=CN Each 章 Ends With a 系列 Of exercises To Help You Practice What You'Ve Just 有学问的, And The answers Are In The 附录 For Your Reference.

=EN And like Learning Perl, we've developed the material in this book for a teaching environment and used it in that setting, including for our own use at Stonehenge Consulting Services, as we conduct on-site and open-enrollment trainings.

=CN And Like Learning Perl, We'Ve 发达 The 材料 In This 书 For a 教学 环境 And Used It In That Setting, Including For Our Own Use At Stonehenge Consulting Services, As We 行为 On-场所 And Open-enrollment trainings.

=EN You don't have to be a Unix guru, or even a Unix user, to benefit from this book.

=CN You Don't Have To Be a Unix guru, Or Even a Unix User, To 益处 From This 书.

=EN Unless otherwise noted, everything in this book applies equally well to Windows ActivePerl from ActiveState and all other modern implementations of Perl.

=CN Unless Otherwise 著名的, Everything In This 书 适用 相等地 Well To 微软视窗操作系统 ActivePerl From ActiveState And All Other Modern 实现 Of Perl.

=EN To use this book, you just need to be familiar with the material in Learning Perl and have the ambition to go further.

=CN To Use This 书, You Just Need To Be 熟悉的 With The 材料 In Learning Perl And Have The 抱负 To Go Further.

=EN Structure of This Book You should read this book from front to back, stopping to do the exercises.

=CN Structure Of This Book You Should Read This 书 From Front To Back, stopping To Do The exercises.

=EN Each chapter builds on preceding chapters, and we'll assume that you know the material from those chapters as we discuss new topics.

=CN Each 章 builds On 前面的 chapters, And We'我 假定 That You Know The 材料 From Those chapters As We 讨论 New 主题.

=EN Chapter 1, Introduction An introduction to the material.

=CN Chapter 1, Introduction An 介绍 To The 材料.

=EN Chapter 2, Intermediate Foundations Pick up some intermediate Perl skills you'll need for the rest of the book.

=CN Chapter 2, Intermediate Foundations Pick Up Some 中间的 Perl skills You'我 Need For The 休息 Of The 书.

=EN Chapter 3, Using Modules Use Perl's core modules, as well as modules from other people.

=CN Chapter 3, Using Modules Use Perl's Core Modules, As Well As Modules From Other People.

=EN We're going to show you how to create your own modules later in the book, but until we do, you can still use modules you already have.

=CN We'Re Going To Show You How To Create Your Own Modules 更晚 In The 书, But Until We Do, You Can Still Use Modules You Already Have.

=EN Chapter 4, Introduction to References Introduce a level of redirection to allow the same code to operate on different sets of data.

=CN Chapter 4, Introduction To References Introduce a Level Of redirection To Allow The Same Code To 运转 On Different Sets Of Data.

=EN Chapter 5, References and Scoping Learn how Perl manages to keep track of pointers to data, and an introduction to anonymous data structures and autovivification.

=CN Chapter 5, References And Scoping Learn How Perl 管理 To 保持 径赛 Of pointers To Data, And An 介绍 To Anonymous Data Structures And autovivification.

=EN Chapter 6, Manipulating Complex Data Structures Create, access, and print arbitrarily deep and nested data structures, including arrays of arrays and hashes of hashes.

=CN Chapter 6, Manipulating Complex Data Structures Create, Access, And Print 任意 深的 And 嵌套的 Data Structures, Including Arrays Of Arrays And Hashes Of Hashes.

=EN Chapter 7, Subroutine References Capture behavior as an anonymous subroutine that you create dynamically and execute later.

=CN Chapter 7, Subroutine References Capture Behavior As An Anonymous Subroutine That You Create Dynamically And Execute 更晚.

=EN Chapter 8, Filehandle References Store filehandles in scalar variables that you can easily pass around your program or store in data structures.

=CN Chapter 8, Filehandle References Store Filehandles In Scalar Variables That You Can 容易地 Pass Around Your Program Or 商店 In Data Structures.

=EN Chapter 9, Practical Reference Tricks Sorting complex operations, the Schwartzian Transform, and working with recursively defined data.

=CN Chapter 9, Practical Reference Tricks Sorting 综合的 操作, The Schwartzian Transform, And Working With Recursively Defined Data.

=EN Chapter 10, Building Larger Programs Build larger programs by separating code into separate files and namespaces.

=CN Chapter 10, Building Larger Programs Build larger Programs By separating Code Into Separate Files And Namespaces.

=EN Chapter 11, Introduction to Objects Work with classes, method calls, inheritance, and overriding.

=CN Chapter 11, Introduction To Objects Work With 类, Method Calls, Inheritance, And Overriding.

=EN Chapter 12, Objects with Data Add per-instance data, including constructors, getters, and setters.

=CN Chapter 12, Objects With Data Add 每-例子 Data, Including 构造函数, getters, And setters.

=EN Chapter 13, Object Destruction Add behavior to an object that is going away, including object persistence.

=CN Chapter 13, Object Destruction Add Behavior To An Object That Is Going Away, Including Object 坚持.

=EN Chapter 14, Some Advanced Object Topics Use multiple inheritance, automatic methods, and references to filehandles.

=CN Chapter 14, Some Advanced Object Topics Use Multiple Inheritance, Automatic Methods, And References To Filehandles.

=EN Chapter 15, Exporter How use works, how we can decide what to export, and how we can create our own import routines.

=CN Chapter 15, Exporter How Use Works, How We Can Decide What To Export, And How We Can Create Our Own Import Routines.

=EN Chapter 16, Writing a Distribution Package a module for sharing, including portable installation instructions.

=CN Chapter 16, Writing a Distribution Package a Module For sharing, Including 手提的 安装 instructions.

=EN Chapter 17, Essential Testing Test your code to ensure it does what you want it to do.

=CN Chapter 17, Essential Testing Test Your Code To Ensure It Does What You Want It To Do.

=EN Chapter 18, Advanced Testing Test complex aspects of code and meta-code things such as documentation and test coverage.

=CN Chapter 18, Advanced Testing Test 综合的 方面 Of Code And 梅塔-Code Things Such As 提供文件 And Test 覆盖率.

=EN Chapter 19, Contributing to CPAN Share your work with the world by uploading it to CPAN.

=CN Chapter 19, Contributing To Perl综合典藏网 Share Your Work With The World By uploading It To Perl综合典藏网.

