=EN Contributing to CPAN Besides allowing others in your organization to receive the benefits of these wonderful modules and distributions you've created, you can contribute to the Perl community at large.

=CN Contributing To Perl综合典藏网 Besides 允许 别人 In Your 组织 To Receive The 效益 Of These 奇妙的 Modules And 分布 You'Ve Created, You Can 捐献 To The Perl 团体 At Large.

=EN The mechanism for sharing your work is called the Comprehensive Perl Archive Network (CPAN), which is 10 years old as we write this and has about 9, 000 different modules.

=CN The Mechanism For sharing Your Work Is Called The Comprehensive Perl 存档文件 Network (Perl综合典藏网), Which Is 10 Years Old As We Write This And Has About 9, 000 Different Modules.

=EN The Comprehensive Perl Archive Network We covered the basic CPAN history in Chapter 3, but that was from a user's perspective.

=CN The Comprehensive Perl 存档文件 Network We covered The 基本的 Perl综合典藏网 历史 In Chapter 3, But That Was From a User's 展望.

=EN Now we want to contribute to CPAN, so we have to look at it from an author's perspective.

=CN Now We Want To 捐献 To Perl综合典藏网, So We Have To Look At It From An 作者's 展望.

=EN It's no accident that CPAN is so useful.

=CN It's No 事故 That Perl综合典藏网 Is So Useful.

=EN The ethos of the project has been that anyone should be able to contribute and that it should be easy for people to share their work.

=CN The ethos Of The 计划 Has Been That 无论谁 Should Be Able To 捐献 And That It Should Be Easy For People To 份 Their Work.

=EN Because of that, it has more than 9, 000 modules (as we write this) and is the model that other languages wish they could adopt.[*]

=CN Because Of That, It Has More Than 9, 000 Modules (As We Write This) And Is The Model That Other Languages Wish They Could 采用.[*]

=EN [*] However, whenever the discussion comes up in other languages, the first thing they do is try to set restrictions, which CPAN purposedly avoided.

=CN [*] However, 无论何时 The 讨论 来 Up In Other Languages, The First Thing They Do Is Try To Set 限制, Which Perl综合典藏网 purposedly avoided.

=EN Remember that CPAN is just a big storage device.

=CN Remember That Perl综合典藏网 Is Just a Big 贮藏 装置.

=EN That's its magic.

=CN That's Its Magic.

=EN Everything else that revolves around it, such as CPAN Search (http://search.cpan.org), CPAN.pm, and CPANPLUS.pm, merely use what's already there, not create what it is.

=CN Everything Else That revolves Around It, Such As Perl综合典藏网 Search (http://search.cpan.org), Perl综合典藏网.Pm, And Perl综合典藏网PLUS.Pm, 仅仅 Use What's Already There, Not Create What It Is.

=EN Getting Prepared Since CPAN is just a big file-storage site, you just need to upload your code.

=CN Getting Prepared Since Perl综合典藏网 Is Just a Big File-贮藏 场所, You Just Need To upload Your Code.

=EN To contribute to CPAN, you need two things:

=CN To 捐献 To Perl综合典藏网, You Need Two Things:

=EN Something to contribute, ideally already in the shape of a module

=CN Something To 捐献, ideally Already In The 形状 Of a Module

=EN A Perl Authors Upload Server (PAUSE) ID

=CN A Perl 作者 Upload Server (PAUSE) ID

=EN The PAUSE ID is your passport to contributing to CPAN.

=CN The PAUSE ID Is Your 护照 To contributing To Perl综合典藏网.

=EN You get a PAUSE ID by simply asking.

=CN You Get a PAUSE ID By Simply 问.

=EN The details are described at http://www.cpan.org/modules/04pause.html.

=CN The Details Are Described At http://www.cpan.org/modules/04pause.html.

=EN You fill out a web form (linked from there) with a few basic details, such as your name, home web page, email address, and your preferred PAUSE ID.

=CN You 装满 Out a 网 Form (Linked From There) With a Few 基本的 Details, Such As Your Name, 家 网 页, 電子郵件 地址, And Your 优先 PAUSE ID.

=EN At the moment, PAUSE IDs must be between four and nine characters.

=CN At The Moment, PAUSE IDs Must Be Between 四 And nine Characters.

=EN (Some legacy PAUSE IDs are only three characters long.)[*] Once you have your PAUSE ID, you need to think globally about your contribution.

=CN (Some 遗产 PAUSE IDs Are Only Three Characters Long.)[*] Once You Have Your PAUSE ID, You Need To 想 Globally About Your 贡献.

=EN Because your module will probably be used in programs along with other modules from other authors, you need to ensure that the package names for modules don't collide with existing modules or confuse the people who browse CPAN.

=CN Because Your Module Will Probably Be Used In Programs 沿着 With Other Modules From Other 作者, You Need To Ensure That The Package Names For Modules Don't 猛烈碰撞 With 现存的 Modules Or 混淆 The People Who browse Perl综合典藏网.

=EN Luckily for you, there is a loose collection of volunteers on the Perl Modules list (modules@perl.org) who've been working with CPAN and modules for quite a while and can help you sort through most problems.

=CN Luckily For You, There Is a 松的 Collection Of volunteers On The Perl Modules List (modules@perl.org) Who'Ve Been Working With Perl综合典藏网 And Modules For Quite a While And Can Help You Sort 通过 Most 问题.

=EN [*] Originally, the PAUSE IDs had to be five characters or less, until Randal wanted his MERLYN ID, and the appropriate accommodation was made.

=CN [*] Originally, The PAUSE IDs Had To Be five Characters Or 更少的, Until Randal 想要 他的 MERLYN ID, And The 恰当的 便利 Was Made.

=EN Before you send your first email to the PAUSE admins, it's probably a good idea to do a few things first:

=CN Before You 派遣 Your First 電子郵件 To The PAUSE admins, It's Probably a Good 思想 To Do a Few Things First:

=EN Look at the current module list.

=CN Look At The Current Module List.

=EN Get an idea for how things are named.

=CN Get An 思想 For How Things Are Named.

=EN Better yet, are you reinventing a subset of something that already exists, or can you contribute your work as a patch to another module?

=CN Better 仍然, Are You reinventing a 子集 Of Something That Already Exists, Or Can You 捐献 Your Work As a 补丁 To 另一个 Module?

=EN Visit the list archives (pointers can be found at http://lists.perl.org) to see what the typical conversations look like.

=CN Visit The List archives (pointers Can Be Found At http://lists.perl.org) To See What The 典型的 conversations Look Like.

=EN That might help you to avoid shock at your response or better phrase your initial request.

=CN That Might Help You To Avoid 震惊 At Your 答复 Or Better 词组 Your Initial 请求.

=EN Above all, get it in your head that this whole process is run by volunteers who aren't perfect and are doing this in their spare time for the good of the Perl community.

=CN Above All, Get It In Your Head That This Whole 程序 Is Run By volunteers Who 还't 完美的 And Are Doing This In Their 腾出时间 Time For The Good Of The Perl 团体.

=EN Have patience.

=CN Have patie(绑定操作符)nce.

=EN Have tolerance.

=CN Have 宽容.

=EN Preparing Your Distribution Once you've gotten your module name settled and you've tested your module with its new name (if needed), you should ensure your distribution is ready for prime time.

=CN Preparing Your Distribution Once You'Ve gotten Your Module Name 解决 And You'Ve 测试 Your Module With Its New Name (If Needed), You Should Ensure Your 分配 Is 准备好的 For 首要的 Time.

=EN While this is similar to releasing a distribution in-house, as described in Chapter 16, you might want to ensure a few additional things about your distribution:

=CN While This Is Similar To releasing a 分配 In-房子, As Described In Chapter 16, You Might Want To Ensure a Few Additional Things About Your 分配:

=EN Create a README file.

=CN Create a README File.

=EN This file is automatically extracted to a separate file on the CPAN archives and lets someone view or download just the key facts about your distribution before fetching or unpacking the rest.

=CN This File Is Automatically extracted To a Separate File On The Perl综合典藏网 archives And Lets Someone 视域 Or download Just The Key facts About Your 分配 Before fetching Or unpacking The 休息.

=EN Make and test your Makefile.PL or Build.PL. Modules without a Makefile.PL are accepted via PAUSE to go into the CPAN but usually get a grimace from those of us who download your stuff, because we might have to figure out how to build and install your distribution.

=CN Make And Test Your Makefile.PL Or Build.PL. Modules Without a Makefile.PL Are Accepted Via PAUSE To Go Into The Perl综合典藏网 But Usually Get a grimace From Those Of Us Who download Your 材料, Because We Might Have To 数字 Out How To Build And 安装 Your 分配.

=EN Bring your MANIFEST up to date.

=CN Bring Your MANIFEST Up To Date.

=EN If you add files that should be part of the distribution, they also need to be in the MANIFEST.

=CN If You 增添 Files That Should Be Part Of The 分配, They Also Need To Be In The MANIFEST.

=EN One quick trick is to clean things up as you would want them in the distribution, and then invoke make manifest, which updates the MANIFEST file to be exactly what you are holding at the moment.[*]

=CN One 快的 诡计 Is To 清洁的 Things Up As You Would Want Them In The 分配, And Then 调用 Make 表明, Which 更新 The MANIFEST File To Be Exactly What You Are 支持 At The Moment.[*]

=EN [*] If make manifest adds too many files, you can create a MANIFEST.SKIP file that has a set of Perl regular expressions that tells make manifest which files to ignore.

=CN [*] If Make 表明 Adds Too Many Files, You Can Create a MANIFEST.SKIP File That Has a Set Of Perl Regular Expressions That 告诉 Make 表明 Which Files To 忽视.

=EN Once you have that file, make manifest will remove from MANIFEST files that match those patterns.

=CN Once You Have That File, Make 表明 Will 移开 From MANIFEST Files That Match Those patterns.

=EN Have a logical distribution version number.

=CN Have a 逻辑的 分配 Version Number.

=EN The Makefile.PL file should specify either a VERSION value or a VERSION_FROM value.

=CN The Makefile.PL File Should Specify Either a VERSION Value Or a VERSION_FROM Value.

=EN If you have a single module (such as a .pm file) in your distribution, it's usually best to grab the version number from there with VERSION_FROM.

=CN If You Have a Single Module (Such As a .Pm File) In Your 分配, It's Usually Best To 抓住 The Version Number From There With VERSION_FROM.

=EN If you have multiple files, either designate one of them as the one you'll always update just before a new release or use the VERSION within the Makefile.PL instead.

=CN If You Have Multiple Files, Either 指明 One Of Them As The One You'我 Always Update Just Before a New Release Or Use The VERSION Within The Makefile.PL Instead.

=EN Also keep in mind that your version number must always increase numerically for newer versions of your distribution.

=CN Also 保持 In Mind That Your Version Number Must Always 增加 数值 For newer Versions Of Your 分配.

=EN (After Version 1.9, the next release can't be Version 1.10, because even if you're calling it "version one point ten, " it's still merely 1.1 to the tools that compare version numbers.)

=CN (After 版本 1.9, The 下一次 Release Can't Be 版本 1.10, Because Even If You'Re Calling It "Version One 尖 ten, " It's Still 仅仅 1.1 To The Tools That 比较 Version 编号.)

=EN Have tests!

=CN Have 测试!

=EN Reread Chapter 17 if you must.

=CN Reread Chapter 17 If You Must.

=EN There's nothing that builds more confidence in an installed distribution than at least a few dozen tests that are run during the installation phase.

=CN There's Nothing That builds More 信任 In An 安装 分配 Than At Least a Few 一打 测试 That Are Run 在 The 安装 阶段.

=EN If you're not adding a test for each bug that you find, how do you know the bug is fixed?

=CN If You'Re Not Adding a Test For Each 臭虫 That You 寻找, How Do You Know The 臭虫 Is Fixed?

=EN Invoke make disttest, which builds a distribution archive of everything in MANIFEST, unpacks the archive into a separate directory, and then runs the tests on your distribution.

=CN Invoke Make disttest, Which builds a 分配 archive Of Everything In MANIFEST, unpacks The archive Into a Separate Directory, And Then 跑 The 测试 On Your 分配.

=EN If that doesn't work for you, you can't expect it to work for anyone else who downloads your distribution from the CPAN.

=CN If That Doesn't Work For You, You Can't 盼望 It To Work For 无论谁 Else Who downloads Your 分配 From The Perl综合典藏网.

=EN Uploading Your Distribution Once you have your distribution ready to share, visit the PAUSE upload page at https://pause.perl.org/pause/authenquery?ACTION=add_uri.

=CN Uploading Your Distribution Once You Have Your 分配 准备好的 To 份, 访问 The PAUSE upload 页 At https://pause.perl.有机/暂停/authenquery?ACTION=add_uri.

=EN You'll have to log in using your PAUSE ID and PAUSE password, and then you'll be given several options to upload your distribution.

=CN You'我 Have To 原木 In Using Your PAUSE ID And PAUSE password, And Then You'我 Be Given Several 选项 To upload Your 分配.

=EN On that page, you can upload your file directly through the HTTP file upload or tell PAUSE where else on the Web it can fetch the distribution.

=CN On That 页, You Can upload Your File 直接地 通过 The HTTP File upload Or Tell PAUSE Where Else On The Web It Can 去取来 The 分配.

=EN Besides that, you can FTP the distribution to ftp://pause.perl.org.

=CN Besides That, You Can FTP The 分配 To ftp://pause.perl.org.

=EN No matter which way you upload the file, it should appear in the list of uploaded files at the bottom of that page.

=CN No Matter Which Way You upload The File, It Should Appear In The List Of uploaded Files At The 底部 Of That 页.

=EN You might have to wait a bit for PAUSE to fetch remote files, but they usually show up pretty quickly.

=CN You Might Have To 等候 a Bit For PAUSE To 去取来 遥远的 Files, But They Usually Show Up 精致的 快.

=EN If you don't see your PAUSE ID next to the distribution name, you can claim it.

=CN If You Don't See Your PAUSE ID 下一次 To The 分配 Name, You Can 要求 It.

=EN Once PAUSE has the file and knows who it belongs to, it indexes it.

=CN Once PAUSE Has The File And 知道 Who It belongs To, It indexes It.

=EN You should get email from the PAUSE indexer telling you what happened.

=CN You Should Get 電子郵件 From The PAUSE indexer telling You What Happened.

=EN After that, your distribution is on its way to CPAN proper.

=CN After That, Your 分配 Is On Its Way To Perl综合典藏网 合适的.

=EN Remember that the N in CPAN is "Network, " so your distribution may take hours or days to reach all of the CPAN mirrors.

=CN Remember That The N In Perl综合典藏网 Is "Network, " So Your 分配 May Take 小时 Or 天 To 到达 All Of The Perl综合典藏网 mirrors.

=EN It shouldn't take longer than a couple of days, though.

=CN It 应该't Take 长 Than a 一对 Of 天, Though.

=EN If you have a problem or think something didn't happen the way it should have, you can ask the PAUSE administrators about it by sending mail to modules@perl.org.

=CN If You Have a Problem Or 想 Something Didn't 发生 The Way It Should Have, You Can 问 The PAUSE administrators About It By sending 邮件 To modules@perl.org.

=EN Announcing the Module How will users learn about your module?

=CN Announcing The Module How Will Users 学习 About Your Module?

=EN Your module gets noticed automatically in many places, including:

=CN Your Module Gets Noticed Automatically In Many Places, Including:

=EN The "Recent modules" page of http://search.cpan.org

=CN The "Recent Modules" 页 Of http://search.cpan.org

=EN The "new modules" section of http://use.perl.org

=CN The "New Modules" Section Of http://use.perl.org

=EN A daily announcement in the "Perl news" mailing list

=CN A 每日的 通知 In The "Perl 新闻" 邮寄 List

=EN An IRC bot on a few of the Perl-related IRC channels announces uploads as soon as they become available

=CN An IRC bot On a Few Of The Perl-Related IRC channels announces uploads As 不久 As They 变成 Available

=EN An update or an uninstalled module in one of the CPAN shells, CPAN.pm, or CPANPLUS.pm

=CN An Update Or An uninstalled Module In One Of The Perl综合典藏网 shells, Perl综合典藏网.Pm, Or Perl综合典藏网PLUS.Pm

=EN For greater visibility, you can also prepare a short notice to be posted to the Usenet comp.lang.perl.announce newsgroup.

=CN For 更大的 Visibility, You Can Also 准备 a 短的 Notice To Be 张贴 To The Usenet comp.lang.perl.announce newsgroup.

=EN Just post the notice, and within a day or two, your news posting will be whisking around to news servers all over the globe.

=CN Just 柱 The Notice, And Within a 一天 Or Two, Your 新闻 posting Will Be whisking Around To 新闻 servers All 在 The 地球.

=EN Testing on Multiple Platforms The CPAN Testers (http://testers.cpan.org) automatically test almost all modules uploaded to CPAN.

=CN Testing On Multiple Platforms The Perl综合典藏网 Testers (http://testers.cpan.org) Automatically Test Almost All Modules uploaded To Perl综合典藏网.

=EN Volunteers around the world automatically download and test each distribution on whatever setup they have.

=CN Volunteers Around The World Automatically download And Test Each 分配 On Whatever setup They Have.

=EN Among them, they test your module on just about every platform, operating system, and Perl version that matters (and many that you probably don't pay attention to).

=CN Among Them, They Test Your Module On Just About Every 讲台, Operating System, And Perl Version That matters (And Many That You Probably Don't 支付 注意 To).

=EN They send email to the module authors telling them what happened, and they automatically update the Testers database.

=CN They 派遣 電子郵件 To The Module 作者 telling Them What Happened, And They Automatically Update The Testers database.

=EN You can look at the results for any module through the Testers web site or on CPAN Search (http://search.cpan.org).

=CN You Can Look At The Results For Any Module 通过 The Testers 网 场所 Or On Perl综合典藏网 Search (http://search.cpan.org).

=EN Often, testers can help you figure out problems for platforms to which you do not have access.

=CN Often, testers Can Help You 数字 Out 问题 For Platforms To Which You Do Not Have Access.

=EN Consider Writing an Article or Giving a Talk Many of the short talks at Perl conferences involve the author of a distribution talking about his own work.

=CN Consider Writing An Article Or Giving a Talk Many Of The 短的 talks At Perl 会议 使卷入 The 作者 Of a 分配 说话 About 他的 Own Work.

=EN After all, who is better qualified to help others use your module than you?

=CN After All, Who Is Better 有资格的 To Help 别人 Use Your Module Than You?

=EN The more interested other people are in your module, the better it gets as they send in their bug reports, feature requests, and patches.

=CN The More 感兴趣的 Other People Are In Your Module, The Better It Gets As They 派遣 In Their 臭虫 Reports, Feature Requests, And patches.

=EN If the idea of proposing a conference talk intimidates you a bit, or you don't want to wait that long, look to your local Perl user group .

=CN If The 思想 Of 提出 a 会议 谈话 intimidates You a Bit, Or You Don't Want To 等候 That Long, Look To Your Local Perl User Group .

=EN They're generally looking for speakers (usually for the meeting coming up in the next week or two), and the group size is usually small enough to be a nice casual setting.

=CN They'Re Generally 看 For speakers (Usually For The 会议 coming Up In The 下一次 星期 Or Two), And The Group Size Is Usually Small Enough To Be a Nice 偶然的 Setting.

=EN You can generally find a Perl user group near you by looking on the Perl Mongers web site at http://www.pm.org.

=CN You Can Generally 寻找 a Perl User Group 近 You By 看 On The Perl 推动者 网 场所 At http://www.pm.org.

=EN If you can't find one, start one!

=CN If You Can't 寻找 One, Start One!

=EN Exercise You can find the answer to this exercise in "Answer for Chapter 19" in the Appendix.

=CN Exercise You Can 寻找 The Answer To This 锻炼 In "Answer For Chapter 19" In The Appendix.

=EN Exercise [Infinite min] Write a module to solve the halting problem with respect to Perl source code.[*] Your module should export a function, will_halt, which takes a string and returns true if the string is the source code for a no-input Perl program that does not infinitely loop, and false otherwise.

=CN Exercise [Infinite min] Write a Module To 解答 The halting Problem With 尊重 To Perl Source Code.[*] Your Module Should Export a Function, will_halt, Which Takes a String And Returns True If The String Is The Source Code For a No-Input Perl Program That Does Not 无限地 Loop, And False Otherwise.

