9.9. Exercises
9.9. 练习
You can find the answers to these exercises in "Answers for Chapter 9" in the Appendix.
答案附录找。
9.9.1. Exercise 1 [15 min]
9.9.1. 练习 1 ［15分钟]
Using the glob operator, a naive sort of every name in the /bin directory by their relative sizes might be written as:
my @sorted = sort { -s $a <=> -s $b } glob "/bin/*";
用glob操作符， 把/bin目录中所有的文件， 以他们的文件大小为序排序，可能的代码如下：
my @sorted = sort { -s $a <=> -s $b } glob "/bin/*";
Rewrite this using the Schwartzian Transform technique.
用施瓦茨变换重写这个程序。
If you don’t have many files in the /bin directory, perhaps because you don’t have a Unix machine, change the argument to glob as needed.
如果你发现在/bin中没有文件， 可能是因为你用的不是UNIX系统， 所以可以按需改一下glob的参数。
9.9.2. Exercise 2 [15 min]
9.9.2. 练习2 ［15分钟]
Read up on the Benchmark module, included with Perl. Write a program that will answer the question "How much does using the Schwartzian Transform speed up the task of Exercise 1?"
读一下Perl里的Benchmark模块。 写个程序解决一个问题：“用了施瓦茨变换使练习1的任务快了多少？”
9.9.3. Exercise 3 [10 min]
9.9.3. 练习3 ［10分钟]
Using a Schwartzian Transform, read a list of words, and sort them in "dictionary order." Dictionary order ignores all capitalization and internal punctuation. Hint: the following transformation might be useful:
my $string = ‘Mary-Ann’;
$string =~ tr/A-Z/a-z/;       # force all lowercase
$string =~ tr/a-z//cd;        # strip all but a-z from the string
print $string;                # prints "maryann"
用施瓦茨变换， 读一列表词， 以“字典顺序”对他们进行排序。 所谓字典顺序忽略大小写和和音节符。 暗示：下列转换可能有用：
$string =~ tr/A-Z/a-z/;       # force all lowercase
$string =~ tr/a-z//cd;        # strip all but a-z from the string
print $string;                # prints "maryann"
Be sure you don’t mangle the data! If the input includes the Professor and the skipper, the output should have them listed in that order, with that capitalization.
注意，不要把数据搞乱了！ 如果输入是Professor和skipper， 那么输出也应该是这个次序，同样的大小写。
9.9.4. Exercise 4 [20 min]
9.9.4. 练习4 [20分钟]
Modify the recursive directory dumping routine so it shows the nested directories through indentation. An empty directory should show up as:
sandbar, an empty directory
修改一下递归目录打印程序， 让它以缩进的形式显示嵌套子目录。 一个空的目录应该如下显示：
sandbar, an empty directory
while a nonempty directory should appear with nested contents, indented two spaces:
uss_minnow, with contents:
  anchor
  broken_radio
  galley, with contents:
    captain_crunch_cereal
    gallon_of_milk
    tuna_fish_sandwich
  life_preservers
非空的子目录应该用缩进两人空格的方法显示嵌套内容：
uss_minnow, with contents:
  anchor
  broken_radio
  galley, with contents:
    captain_crunch_cereal
    gallon_of_milk
    tuna_fish_sandwich
  life_preservers


